--- Page 1 ---
American Economic Review 2014, 104(7): 1979–2013 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1257/aer.104.7.1979
1979
Patent Laws, Product Life-Cycle Lengths,  
and Multinational Activity†
By L. Kamran Bilir*
Do intellectual property rights influence multinationals’ manufactur-
ing location decisions? My theoretical model indicates that coun-
tries with strong patent laws attract multinational activity, but only 
in sectors with relatively long product life cycles. By contrast, firms 
with short life-cycle technologies are insensitive, because offshore 
imitation is less likely to succeed before obsolescence. I document 
strong empirical regularities consistent with the model using a panel 
dataset on the global operations of US-based multinational firms 
and a new measure of product obsolescence. Moreover, my identifi-
cation strategy allows me to isolate the causal effect of patent laws 
on multinational activity. (JEL D92, F23, K11, L60, O34, R32)
Multinational corporations are among the most innovation-intensive firms and 
account for the substantial majority of international transactions.1 To an increas-
ing extent, these transactions involve proprietary technologies transferred within the 
firm from multinational parents to their foreign affiliates.2 But in choosing where to 
establish foreign affiliates and deploy these proprietary technologies, multinational 
firms face a trade-off, because countries with attractive input costs often lack strong 
protection for intellectual property. 
This trade-off does not, however, affect firms in all sectors equally. Consider, for 
example, the experience of firms in the electronics, hard-disk drive, and solar cell 
industries. Electronics and hard-disk drive firms tend to produce even their new-
est products in countries with weak intellectual property institutions.3 By contrast, 
1 Doms and Jensen (1998); UNCTAD (2005); Criscuolo, Haskel, and Slaughter (2010).
2 National Science Board (2010). See also Keller and Yeaple (2013).
3 Hard-disk drive firms Seagate and Western Digital maintain manufacturing facilities in Thailand, for example, 
where patent institutions consistently fall between the tenth and twentieth percentiles across countries during 1985–
2005; Seagate has pursued an aggressive offshoring strategy for decades (Igami 2010).
* Department of Economics, University of Wisconsin, 1180 Observatory Drive, Madison, WI 53706 (e-mail: 
kbilir@ssc.wisc.edu). The statistical analysis of firm-level data on US multinational companies was conducted at 
the Bureau of Economic Analysis, US Department of Commerce under arrangements that maintain legal confi-
dentiality requirements. The views expressed are those of the author and do not reflect official positions of the US 
Department of Commerce. The Bureau of Economic Analysis has reviewed this paper prior to release to ensure that 
data confidentiality is not unintentionally compromised. The author has no relevant or material financial interests 
that relate to the research described in this paper. I thank Kenneth Arrow, Nick Bloom, Kalina Manova, Petra Moser, 
and Bob Staiger for their invaluable guidance. I also thank Dietmar Harhoff, Ken Hendricks, Mark Lemley, Ray 
Mataloni, Eduardo Morales, Mitch Polinsky, Stanley Watt, and Bill Zeile for insightful conversations, and semi-
nar participants at Boston College, Calgary, Chicago Fed, Columbia, Dartmouth Tuck, HBS, Kellogg, Maryland, 
NBER, Princeton, Stanford, UCLA, Wharton, and Wisconsin, and three anonymous referees for very helpful 
comments. Financial support from the John M. Olin Foundation and the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy 
Research Leonard W. Ely and Shirley R. Ely Fellowship is gratefully acknowledged.
† Go to http://dx.doi.org/10.1257/aer.104.7.1979 to visit the article page for additional materials and author 
disclosure statement(s).


--- Page 2 ---
1980
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
Solar Junction, a US firm that has developed high-efficiency solar cells, performs its 
proprietary manufacturing activity in the United States, pointing to concerns about 
offshore imitation risk as a major factor behind the decision. Solar Junction cites the 
durability of the intellectual property associated with its current products—which is 
long-lived compared with that embedded in electronics and hard-disk products—as 
a key underlying cause for its sensitivity to intellectual property laws.4 
This article provides evidence that multinational firms’ sensitivity to host-country 
intellectual property protection is determined by the length of product life cycles. I 
quantify the effects of patent laws and product life-cycle lengths on US firms’ global 
operations across 37 industries and 92 countries during 1982–2004. My results indi-
cate that intellectual property rights attract systematically higher levels of multina-
tional activity in sectors with long product life cycles. I show that these patterns in 
the data are consistent with a global production model in which innovating firms in 
the North face imitation risk in the South. Firms with short life-cycle products are 
less sensitive to intellectual property rights in the model, because offshore imitation 
is less likely to succeed before obsolescence. I implement these findings to empiri-
cally isolate the causal effect of patent laws on multinational activity. 
In the model, innovating firms make production location decisions for prod-
ucts with industry-specific life-cycle lengths that are technologically determined. 
At every moment, firms choose whether to locate manufacturing in the North or 
in the South. While firms initially enjoy higher profits when manufacturing in the 
South, patents there are imperfectly protected compared with in the North. This 
affects location decisions, because manufacturing requires the use of proprietary 
knowledge; the act of manufacturing exposes this knowledge to local entrepreneurs, 
enabling imitation to arise where manufacturing occurs. Importantly, the risks and 
expected losses associated with imitation depend on both the quality of local patent 
laws and on products’ remaining economic lifetimes. The sourcing trade-off thus 
evolves over the product life cycle. 
I show that firms follow a sector-invariant optimal location rule, whereby produc-
tion moves to the South when products reach a critical time-to-obsolescence cutoff. 
Improvements to patent protection in the South increase this cutoff. Because products 
with lifetimes shorter than the cutoff are always manufactured in the South, pat-
ent reforms have no effect on location decisions in fast-turnover industries. By con-
trast, the manufacture of longer-lived products is offshored to the South earlier in the 
life cycle following the reform, increasing multinational activity in these industries. 
Moreover, the industry-level response to patent reforms is a nonmonotonic function 
of product life-cycle lengths and is most pronounced in intermediate life-cycle length 
sectors. Intuitively, this is because the increase in the offshoring cutoff affects the 
manufacturing location only for marginal product varieties, the measure of which 
is highest in sectors with intermediate product lifetimes. These comparative statics 
also hold in the cross-section of countries with different levels of patent protection. 
Finally, these effects are concentrated among relatively less-productive firms. 
For my empirical analysis, I develop a new index of product life-cycle lengths 
using information in patent records from the NBER US Patent Citation Data File. 
4 Based on conversations with senior management at Solar Junction.


--- Page 3 ---
1981
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
The index is based on the idea that the duration of citations received by patents 
reflects the lifetime of technologies embedded in products (e.g., Narin and Olivastro 
1993); my approach is consistent with evidence that innovative ideas tend to span 
several successive versions over the product life cycle as in Klepper (1996). Within 
a simple theory of sequential innovation, I show that a specific industry-level 
index—the mean forward citation lag (or age)—captures variation in average prod-
uct lifetimes. I use this as my primary measure; I also compare my results with 
estimates based on alternative proxies, including the Broda and Weinstein (2010) 
product turnover index. Host-country patent laws are measured with a widely used 
index of patent protection (Ginarte and Park 1997; Park 2008), and I measure US 
firms’ global location decisions using data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
My empirical analysis indicates that, relative to short–life cycle sectors, firms 
in sectors with long product life cycles offshore a significantly smaller share of 
manufacturing activity; this is consistent with firms choosing to begin offshor-
ing ­longer-lived products systematically later in the product life cycle. I also find 
that levels of affiliate sales, assets, and employment by industry respond to patent 
strength according to the industry’s product life-cycle length. In particular, I find 
that sensitivity to patent protection is nonmonotonic in product life-cycle lengths: 
it is low in short life-cycle sectors and high in long life-cycle sectors, with the larg-
est effects in sectors near the seventy-fifth percentile of the distribution. This dif-
ferential sensitivity to patent laws is also economically significant: a one–standard 
deviation increase in measured patent protection attracts between 10 and 20 percent-
age points more multinational activity in the seventy-fifth percentile sector than in 
the ­tenth-percentile sector by product life-cycle lengths. Similarly, the effect at the 
­seventy-fifth percentile exceeds that at the ninety-fifth percentile sector by between 
5 and 10 percentage points. 
I find that these industry-level effects reflect distinct modes of firm response: 
stronger patent laws attract more affiliates and also expand the size of existing affili-
ates in sectors with long product life cycles, with the largest effects in sectors with 
mid-length life cycles. This finding is important from a Southern welfare perspec-
tive, because it reveals that stronger patents expand not just the level but also the 
scope of local industrial activity. This latter effect strongly suggests that stronger 
patent laws attract greater levels of technology transfer in long life-cycle sectors. I 
also verify that responsiveness to patent laws is more pronounced among affiliates 
within low-productivity firms. 
My article is related to several different literatures. The analysis contributes to a 
growing body of work that empirically evaluates the influence of intellectual prop-
erty rights on foreign direct investment and technology transfer. Using data on direct 
investment in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, Javorcik (2004) finds that 
stronger patent rights encourage firms to establish subsidiaries in ­high-technology 
sectors. Branstetter, Fisman, and Foley (2006) and Branstetter et al. (2011) exam-
ine firm-level responsiveness to patent reform events during the 1980s and 1990s; 
they find that the patent reforms are associated with increased intrafirm royalty pay-
ments and local affiliate activity among US multinationals, with the largest effects 
in ­high-patent firms. However, concurrent policy reforms and the high degree of 
correlation between measures of patent protection and general economic develop-
ment pose a substantial challenge to empirical studies of this nature. I build on the 


--- Page 4 ---
1982
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
foundation of these prior analyses by introducing systematic variation across sectors 
in product life-cycle lengths, a dimension that determines sensitivity to local patent 
laws but is theoretically independent of firms’ sensitivity to general institutions and 
economic development. This variation enables me to isolate patent laws’ causal influ-
ence on multinational activity, even in the presence of concurrent policy reforms. 
My results complement prior studies that investigate differences across indus-
tries in the importance and effectiveness of patent protection. Firm-level surveys 
(Mansfield, Schwartz, and Wagner 1981; Levin et al. 1987; and Cohen, Nelson, 
and Walsh 2000) and other analyses (Schankerman 1998; Arora, Ceccagnoli, and 
Cohen 2003; and Moser 2005) reveal large differences in the usefulness of patents 
as a means of appropriating the returns from innovation, with patents conferring 
exceptionally effective protection in the chemical and medical equipment industries. 
I incorporate this insight into my analysis with an additional test and show that my 
results indeed hold with greater strength in sectors for which patents have been 
found to be effective. The results of my analysis also provide evidence that, under 
certain conditions, the rate of technological obsolescence itself forms an additional 
factor conditioning the relative importance of patent protection across industries. 
The theoretical model in this article is closely related to an extensive literature 
on international product cycles, which has developed following Vernon (1966) and 
includes contributions by Krugman (1979), Helpman (1993), and Antràs (2005). 
These models evaluate the process by which the manufacture of products shifts from 
the North, where innovation occurs, to the South, where manufacturing costs are lower. 
Similar to the model in Antràs (2005), my model emphasizes the voluntary nature of 
firms’ production location decisions, allowing relocation timing to be endogenously 
determined. My theoretical departure, relative to this prior literature, is the introduc-
tion of cross-industry variation in the economic durability of products and ideas. 
This article also contributes to a line of research examining the impact of insti-
tutional frictions on foreign direct investment. Recent studies have emphasized the 
influence of financial development, investor protection laws, and contractual imper-
fections on multinational activity (Antràs, Desai, and Foley 2009; Manova, Wei, 
and Zhang 2011; Bernard et al. 2010; Antràs 2003). Others have suggested that the 
effects of these imperfections are acutely felt by innovative firms, particularly those 
seeking to manufacture cutting-edge technology abroad (Antràs and Helpman 2004; 
Nunn and Trefler 2008; Davidson and McFetridge 1985). 
The rest of the article presents my theoretical and empirical analysis. In Section I, 
I develop a product cycle model with innovating firms that face imitation risk. After 
describing the data in Section II, I outline the estimation approach that will be used 
to evaluate the data in Section III. In Sections IV and V, I describe the empirical 
results. Section VI concludes.
I.  Theory
The model developed below captures the essential trade-off between profit gains 
and offshore imitation risk faced by firms manufacturing abroad. The model formal-
izes the idea that this trade-off evolves over the product life cycle; production location 
decisions thus hinge on both host-country characteristics and product obsolescence 
rates. To highlight the theoretical results that correspond to my empirical analysis 


--- Page 5 ---
1983
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
to follow, I present a simplified partial-equilibrium analysis with two countries. At 
the end of the section, I describe how my results extend to settings with multiple 
Southern countries and heterogeneous firms. Details appear in the online Appendix.
A. Setup
Time is continuous, and in each sector j = 1, … , J there is a continuum of 
­horizontally differentiated product varieties. At every moment, firms in each industry 
manufacture varieties and sell to consumers in both the North and the South, sym-
metric countries with monopolistically competitive markets that are each of size 1. I 
assume innovating firms pay a one-time, sector-specific fixed cost to develop a new 
good, thereafter enjoying a monopoly in that good until it either is imitated or becomes 
obsolete. Sectors are distinguished by the pace of product (technology) obsolescence, 
which I assume is determined by technological developments specific to each indus-
try but exogenous to individual firms.5 Product life-cycle lengths T thus vary across 
sectors, but all sector-j products share the same life-cycle length ​T​j​ . This means that 
once a sector-j variety has reached a market maturity of ​T​j​ years, it becomes obsolete 
and is of no further economic value to consumers; intellectual property (both patented 
and tacit) associated with the retired variety also immediately becomes obsolete.6 
To keep things simple, I treat the rate of new product entry as exogenous and 
assume that it is constant and equal to the rate of product obsolescence in each 
sector. This implies that obsolete varieties are immediately replaced by new innova-
tions, leaving unchanged and exogenous the overall measure of varieties per sec-
tor, which I assume is 1 for all sectors j.7 Notice that under my assumptions, the 
­within-sector age distribution of product maturities at any point in time is uniform 
with density ​ψ​j​ (t) ≡ 1/​T​j​ .
B. Production
Consider a firm that has introduced a particular good. To produce output, the firm 
uses its product-specific technology (proprietary information associated with the 
innovative good) to combine headquarters services and manufacturing. Innovating 
firms locate permanent headquarters in the North, and thus source headquarters ser-
vices there, but at any time may costlessly shift manufacturing to an affiliate in 
the South. As a monopolist, a firm earns flow profit ​π​ N​ when manufacturing in the 
North, and ​π​ S​ when manufacturing in the South. I assume that economic conditions 
favor manufacturing in the South so that ​π​ S​ > ​π​ N​; such conditions may include 
differences between North and South in regulatory costs, trade costs, and factor 
5 What is important for my empirical analysis is that the obsolescence rates faced by US firms do not respond 
significantly to changes in the patent laws of foreign countries. Taking obsolescence rates as technologically deter-
mined is a simple way to ensure this in my model, though it is a stronger assumption than I need for the empirical 
analysis. See Section IIIB for further discussion.
6 This approach is consistent with the observation that most patented innovations are not renewed to the full term 
allowable by law (Schankerman and Pakes 1986), suggesting that the duration of a patent-based monopoly is, on 
average, a technological characteristic rather than a uniform legal standard. See Section IIA for further discussion.
7 I discuss the implications of endogenous entry in later notes, but since my aim is to evaluate the production 
location decisions of innovating firms in response to the strength of foreign patent laws, this assumption seems 
reasonable provided that Northern multinationals make innovation decisions primarily on the basis of Northern 
patent laws.


--- Page 6 ---
1984
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
­prices.8 In this setting, profit maximization implies a link between profit and rev-
enue: each firm earns revenue ​r​ i​ = σ ​π​ i​ when manufacturing in country i, where 
σ > 1 is the demand elasticity faced by all firms. Hence, firms earn higher revenues 
when manufacturing in the South, ​r​ S​ > ​r​ N​. 
An innovating firm’s monopoly power may be disrupted by imitation, depend-
ing on its manufacturing location. Because manufacturing requires the use of 
­product-specific proprietary information, imitators must obtain this information to 
enter. Consistent with evidence in Arora (1996), I assume that innovating firms pro-
tect proprietary information both formally (patents) and informally (trade secrets), 
and that all information—patented and tacit—is essential to successful production 
and must therefore be revealed to manufacturing employees.9 By revealing trade 
secrets to these employees, I assume the firm enables potential imitators located 
near the firm’s manufacturing facility to access this previously undisclosed informa-
tion at lower cost.10 In particular, I assume cross-border access to product-specific 
trade secrets is prohibitively costly, so that imitators are economically constrained 
to pursue only those varieties that have been locally manufactured. 
Imitation risk affects innovators’ location decisions, because entry by an imitator 
results in profit losses. Specifically, innovating firms competing with an imitator cap-
ture only a fraction of the per-period profits described above. This fraction depends 
on the quality of local patent enforcement, which I summarize with a pair of country-
specific indexes ​ξ​N​ and ​ξ​S​. Similar to Grossman and Lai (2004), ​ξ​i​ is the probability 
that a country-i patent will be enforced at any point in time but could be equivalently 
interpreted as the fraction of territory in which patents are enforced. I assume that pat-
ents are perfectly enforced in the North, but not in the South, ​ξ​N​ = 1 and ​ξ​S​ < 1. Only 
where a patent fails to be enforced may imitators’ products compete directly with 
innovating firms’. Hence, imitation products may be sold only in the South.
C. Imitation
Potential imitators exist in the South. Any imitator with access to the proprietary 
information necessary for production may begin reverse-engineering a product; as 
8 Because the model provides a theoretical motivation for how international investment responds to patent reform 
events in the medium term, I do not include longer-run considerations such as endogenous changes in Southern 
profits ​π​ S​ and Northern innovation rates. These general equilibrium effects are of clear theoretical and practical 
importance (Grossman and Helpman 1991) viewed from an aggregate perspective and will be accommodated by 
my main empirical specification that includes country-by-year fixed effects and, thus, emphasizes cross-sector 
rather than absolute comparisons in multinational activity.
9 My assumption that firms protect product-specific proprietary technology both formally and informally is 
essential for the theoretical mechanism described here to be applicable; comprehensive patenting leaves imita-
tors with little to learn once offshoring begins, while an absence of patents implies no reliance on patent institu-
tions. That patented and tacit knowledge are assumed complements in the production process is also supported by 
­firm-level evidence on knowledge bundling in Arora (1996). More general forms of tacit knowledge, not specific 
to a particular product, are also of clear importance (e.g., Klepper and Sleeper 2005); I consider firms’ general 
knowledge implicitly in Sections IG and IVD.
10 My assumption that acquiring proprietary information is less costly when it is in active local use is consistent 
with evidence in Poole (2013): employees of domestic establishments experience significant wage increases fol-
lowing hire of a former multinational employee, providing support for the existence of within-firm information 
transfers across workers. Relatedly, Moser (2005) finds complex innovations that are well protected by secrecy 
are significantly less likely to be patented. This supports the idea that firms’ tacit intellectual property may be par-
ticularly difficult to discern by observing only final products and patents; even with access to patents and imported 
products from the North, imitators may therefore gain critical product information through direct access to manu-
facturing workers.


--- Page 7 ---
1985
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
described above, this proprietary information is accessible in the South whenever 
manufacturing is located there, and it is otherwise not accessible to potential imita-
tors. As in Grossman and Helpman (1991), Glass and Saggi (2002), and elsewhere, 
I assume the time to imitation success m is uncertain and that success arrives at a 
constant Poisson rate. For simplicity, I also assume the arrival time is restricted to 
a known interval [0, ​_ 
m ​], implying that m follows a uniform distribution over this 
period.11 Imitation effort thus may or may not yield an imitation product within the 
targeted variety’s lifetime.
A successful imitator competes with the innovating firm wherever patents are 
not enforced (Grossman and Helpman 1991) until the variety becomes obsolete. I 
assume that imitators are able to profitably capture any such market where patents 
are not enforced. Because imitation is costless, this implies that offshoring manufac-
turing immediately raises the hazard of imitation.
D. The Product Cycle
Firms make profit-maximizing location decisions, taking into account the behav-
ior of Southern imitators. Specifically, each sector-j firm selects the optimal product 
maturity ​t​ j​ ∗​ ∈ [0, ​T​j​] at which to begin offshoring production in the South by maxi-
mizing lifetime expected profits,
(1)  	
​E​m​ [​Π​j​ (t)]  =  2 ​π​ N​ t  +  2 ​π​ S​ ​E​m​ [min {​T​j​ − t, m}] 
	
+  (1 + ​ξ​S​)​π​ S​ ​E​m​ [max {0, ​T​j​ − t − m}].
Equation (1) reveals the effect of imperfect patent enforcement in the South on 
Northern firms’ offshoring incentives. Selling to both markets, the firm earns 2​π​ N​ 
with certainty until offshoring begins at maturity t, but thereafter faces imitation 
risk. The firm then earns full profit 2​π​ S​ for the length of time m if imitation pre-
cedes obsolescence, and for ​T​j​ − t otherwise. In the former case, once imitation 
has occurred, profit is ​π​ S​ only where patents are enforced, namely in the Northern 
market and in a fraction ​ξ​S​ of the Southern market; postimitation profit is thus 
(1 + ​ξ​S​)​π​ S​. 
Maximization of ​E​m​[​Π​j​(t)] over possible relocation maturities t reveals a 
­time-to-obsolescence offshoring cutoff ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) that is invariant across industries with 
different product life-cycle lengths ​T​j​ . Varieties with less than ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) time remain-
ing before obsolescence are manufactured in the South, while all other varieties are 
manufactured in the North. The value of this cutoff,
(2) 
	
​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​)  =  ​  ​π​ S​ − ​π​ N​ 
_ 
​π​ S​(1 − ​ξ​S​)
 ​ 2 ​_ 
m ​,
depends on ​ξ​S​ , innovators’ ​π​ N​ and ​π​ S​, and imitators’ ​_ 
m ​. Notice that firms manufac-
ture in the South earlier in the product life cycle when Southern patents are ­better 
protected: ∂ ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)/∂ ​ξ​S​ > 0.
11 To reduce the taxonomy of cases, I also assume that ​_ 
m ​ > ma​x​j​ {​T​j​}, so that the time to imitation success is 
relatively uncertain compared with the length of product life cycles.


--- Page 8 ---
1986
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
Lemma 1: In industries with ​T​j​ < ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), products are always manufactured in 
the South. In all other industries, product cycles emerge: manufacturing is initially 
in the North but relocates to the South once the product has ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) time remain-
ing before obsolescence and remains there until obsolescence. The cutoff ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) is 
increasing in Southern patent protection ​ξ​S​ : ∂ ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)/∂ ​ξ​S​ > 0.
Lemma 1 implies that products are manufactured in the North for ​t​ j​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)  
≡ max{0, ​T​j​ − ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)} time, and in the South for ​T​j​ − ​t​ j​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) = min{​T​j​, ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)} time. 
This further implies that the measure of products manufactured in the South at any 
point in time is
(3)  	
​S​j​ (​ξ​S​)  ≡  ​∫​ ​t​ j​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)​ 
​T​j​
  ​ ​ψ​j​ (t) dt  =  ​ 
​T​j​ − ​t​ j​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​) 
_ 
​T​j​ 
​  =  min ​{ 1, ​ ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) 
_ 
​T​j​  ​ }​ ,
which is weakly decreasing in ​T​j​ ; this reflects the essential point that longer-lived 
products spend (weakly) more of their lives being produced in the North, and, hence, 
at any point in time there are (weakly) fewer of them manufactured in the South. I 
summarize this as follows:
Result 1: The measure of varieties manufactured in the South in sector j is 
(weakly) decreasing in product life-cycle lengths ​T​j​ : ∂ ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​)/∂ ​T​j​ ≤ 0.
Notice that ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​) may also be interpreted as the fraction of offshored varieties 
in sector j. In the top panel of Figure 1, I plot ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​) (vertical axis) as a function 
of sectors’ product life-cycle lengths ​T​j​ (horizontal axis) where ​T​j​ ranges between 
​T​min​ < ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) < ​T​max​; I show ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​) at two different levels of Southern patent protec-
tion, ​ξ​S​ (solid) and ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ (dashed), with ​ξ​S​ < ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​. Furthermore, Southern affiliates in 
sector j earn aggregate expected revenues ​R​j​ (​ξ​S​) as follows, obtained by integrating 
variety-specific revenues over the distribution of product maturities:
(4)
​R​j​ (​ξ​S​)  = ​∫​ ​t​ j​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)​ 
​T​j​
  ​ ​( 2 ​r​ S​ ​( 1 − ​κ​im​ (t) )​ + (1 + ​ξ​S​)​r​ S​ ​κ​im​(t) )​ ​ψ​j​ (t) dt 
=
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎩
2 ​r​ S​ · ​( 1 − ​ 
​T​j​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ ​ )​ + (1 + ​ξ​S​) · ​r​ S​ · ​ 
​T​j​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ ​ ,
​T​j​ < ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​)
2 ​r​ S​ · ​( ​ ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​) 
_ 
​T​j​  ​ − ​ ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​)​2​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ T​j​  ​ )​ + (1 + ​ξ​S​) · ​r​ S​ · ​ ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​)​2​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ T​j​  ​ , ​T​j​ ≥ ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​),
where ​κ​im​(t) is the probability that a maturity-t product is currently imitated. For 
the first case in (4), products are always manufactured in the South but face imi-
tation risk; at any moment, a fraction ​ 
​T​j​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ ​ have been imitated and thus earn only 
(1 + ​ξ​S​) ​r​ S​. In the second case, products have longer lifetimes and only a measure 
​ ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) 
_ 
​T​j​  ​ are manufactured in the South at any time; of these, a smaller measure 
​ ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)​2​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ ​T​j​ ​ have been imitated and earn only (1 + ​ξ​S​)​r​ S​.


--- Page 9 ---
1987
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
E. Cross-Sector Response to Strengthened Patent Rights
Suppose the South enacts a policy change that strengthens local patent enforce-
ment from ​ξ​S​ to ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ > ​ξ​S​. By equation (2), firms optimally offshore manufacturing 
earlier in the product life cycle following this change. From (3), a straightforward 
implication of this is that the difference in the measure of varieties manufactured in 
the South at ​ξ​S​ and at ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ > ​ξ​S​ depends on ​T​j​ as follows:
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
0,
​T​j​ < ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)
.
(5) 
​S​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​)  = 
​ 
​T​j​ − ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​) 
_ 
​T​j​ 
​ ,
​T​j​ ∈ [​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​), ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​)]
​ ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​) 
 
__ 
​T​j​ 
​ ,  ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​)
I plot ​S​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​) in the middle panel of Figure 1. This extensive-margin effect 
can be interpreted as the measure (level) of varieties that is immediately offshored 
Tj 
TMAX
Tj 
TMAX
TMIN
TMIN
1 
Tj 
TMIN 
TMAX 
τ ⁎(ξS)
τ ⁎(ξ′S)
τ ⁎(ξS)
τ ⁎(ξ′S)
τ ⁎(ξS)
τ ⁎(ξ′S)
Rj(ξ′S) − Rj(ξS)
Sj(ξ′S) − Sj(ξS)
Sj(ξS)
Figure 1. Product Life-Cycle Lengths and the Location of Manufacturing Activity
Notes: The upper panel of this figure shows the measure of product varieties manufactured 
in the South Sj (ξS) as a function of product life-cycle lengths Tj at two different levels of 
­host-country patent protection ξS (solid) and ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ (dashed), ξS < ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​. The middle panel takes the 
difference between these two curves, showing that countries with stronger patent protection 
attract manufacturing activity for a larger measure of varieties, but only in sectors with Tj > 
​τ​ ∗​(ξS). The lower panel shows the difference in affiliate revenues at the two levels of patent 
protection, which increase due to the combined effect of entry and stronger protection of exist-
ing imitated varieties.


--- Page 10 ---
1988
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
to the South following the patent reform. This effect may also be interpreted as 
a change in the fraction of offshored varieties in sector j; my empirical approach 
below is consistent with either interpretation. In industries with product life cycles 
shorter than the original sourcing cutoff (​T​j​ ≤ ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)), firms do not respond to 
the reform; in these industries, varieties were already manufactured in the South 
for their full lifetime at ​ξ​S​ and continue to be at ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​. In industries with longer 
product life cycles ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), however, firms shift the manufacture of marginal 
varieties to the South. Marginal varieties are the subset of products with between 
​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) and ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) remaining years before obsolescence and are, thus, found only in 
industries with ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​). The measure of marginal varieties is increasing in ​T​j​ for 
​T​j​ ∈ [​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​)], and is decreasing in ​T​j​ for ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​). ​S​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​) is thus a 
nonmonotonic function of ​T​j​ .
Result 2: The increase in the measure of sector-j varieties manufactured in the 
South ​S​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​) following a patent reform from ​ξ​S​ to ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ is a nonmonotonic 
function of ​T​j​ . Specifically, it is zero for ​T​j​ < ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), increasing for ​T​j​ ∈ [​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), 
​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​)], and decreasing for ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​). The largest impact occurs in the industry 
with ​T​j​ = ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​).
Revenues earned by Southern affiliates are impacted by patent reform both 
because of newly shifted manufacturing and because existing imitated varieties cap-
ture a larger share of Southern sales under the stronger patent regime. Building from 
equations (4) and (5), the change in industry-j revenues earned offshore following a 
Southern patent reform from ​ξ​S​ to ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ depends on ​T​j​
(6) ​R​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​R​j​ (​ξ​S​)  =
⎧
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎨
⎪
⎪
⎪
⎩
​r​ S​ · (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ − ​ξ​S​) · ​ 
​T​j​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ ​ ,
​T​j​ < ​τ​ ∗​ (​ξ​S​)
​r​ S​ · ​( 2 ​ 
​T​j​ − ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) 
_ 
​T​j​ 
​ + (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ − ​ξ​S​) · ​ 
[​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)​]​2​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ ​T​j​  ​ )​ ,
​T​j​ ∈ [​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​)]
​r​ S​ · ​( 2 ​ 
​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​) 
 
_ 
​T​j​ 
​ + (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ − ​ξ​S​) · ​ 
[​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​)​]​2​ 
_ 
2 ​_ 
m ​ ​T​j​  ​ )​ , ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​).
​R​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​R​j​ (​ξ​S​) above is also a nonmonotonic function of ​T​j​ , increasing for ​T​j​ ≤ ​
τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) and decreasing for ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​), implying that the largest response to the pat-
ent reform is in the industry with ​T​j​ = ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​). I illustrate ​R​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​R​j​ (​ξ​S​) as a func-
tion of ​T​j​ in the bottom panel of Figure 1.
Result 3: Following a patent reform from ​ξ​S​ to ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​, the increase in sector-j rev-
enues earned by Southern affiliates ​R​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​R​j​ (​ξ​S​) is a nonmonotonic function of ​
T​j​ . Specifically, it is increasing for ​T​j​ ≤ ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​), and decreasing for ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​). The 
largest impact occurs in the industry with ​T​j​ = ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​).
Results 2 and 3 form the foundation for my empirical strategy (Section III).


--- Page 11 ---
1989
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
F. Multiple Southern Countries
Qualitatively identical results to those described above apply to comparisons 
in the cross-section between countries with different levels of patent protection. 
Consider two Southern countries S and ​S′​ that are identical but for different pat-
ent institutions ​ξ​S​ and ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​, with ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ > ​ξ​S​ , and for simplicity, assume trade costs are 
negligible.12 Firms’ offshoring incentives are captured by an equation similar to 
(1) that incorporates additional considerations. First, firms optimally consolidate 
manufacturing activity in a single location that serves as an export platform for all 
other markets (e.g., Arkolakis et al. 2013). Second, imitators in the South may sell 
both locally and in other markets where patents are imperfectly enforced; however, 
because exporting imitation goods requires evading both local and foreign patent 
authorities, the export market enjoyed by imitators is small compared with the local 
market. Finally, because multinational activity is observed in countries with both 
strong and weak patent protection, in this multicountry extension I allow firms’ affil-
iate location decisions to depend both on maximized lifetime profits as a function 
of patent protection (1) and on an unobserved, location-specific profit component. 
I assume this additional component enters the lifetime profit function and is drawn 
independently across country-variety pairs according to a known distribution.
Results 2 and 3 apply to Southern countries S and ​S′​ collectively in this setting. 
In particular, it can be shown (see the online Appendix) that, similar to (5), the 
industry-level measure of varieties manufactured only in the stronger-patent host 
country ​S​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​) is a nonmonotonic function of ​T​j​ . And, comparing total 
affiliate revenues in the stronger-patent host country ​R​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) with affiliate revenues 
in the weaker-patent host country ​R​j​ (​ξ​S​) reveals a difference analogous to (6) and 
similarly nonmonotonic in ​T​j​ .
Result 4: The differences (i ) between the measure of sector-j varieties manufac-
tured in the host country with stronger patent protection ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ versus in the host coun-
try with weaker patent protection ​ξ​S​ , ​S​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​), and (ii ) between the revenues 
earned by sector-j Southern affiliates in the host country with stronger patent protec-
tion ​ξ​ S​ ′ ​ versus in the host country with weaker patent protection ​ξ​S​ , ​R​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​R​j​ (​ξ​S​), 
are both nonmonotonic functions of ​T​j​ . Specifically, both differences are constant 
for ​T​j​ < ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), increasing for ​T​j​ ∈ [​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​)], and decreasing for ​T​j​ > ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​). 
Both ​S​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​S​j​ (​ξ​S​) and ​R​j​ (​ξ​ S​ ′ ​) − ​R​j​ (​ξ​S​) are therefore largest in the industry with ​
T​j​ = ​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​ S​ ′ ​).
G. Firm Heterogeneity
In the presence of firm heterogeneity in productivity, patent laws have differ-
ential effects on production location decisions across firms with different pro-
ductivity levels. Returning to the two-country North-South world, I assume that 
­within-sector productivity differences across innovators can be summarized by a 
12 Results in this section also obtain in settings with higher transport costs; see the online Appendix.


--- Page 12 ---
1990
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
positive ­firm-specific parameter φ ∈ [​φ​L​, ​φ​H​] that affects profits as in Melitz (2003). 
Firms with higher productivity draws earn higher profits whether manufacturing 
in the North ​π​ N​(φ) = ​π​ N​φ​σ−1​ or in the South ​π​ S​(φ) = ​π​ S​φ​σ−1​, where ​π​ N​, ​π​ S​, and 
σ > 1 are as defined above. Assume further that Southern firms share a fixed produc-
tivity level below ​φ​H​ , and that imitators compete with innovating firms on the basis 
of price wherever patents are not protected.13 This monopolistically competitive 
setting implies a link between profits, prices, and marginal production costs, fur-
ther implying that the Northern innovator may be productive enough that successful 
imitators are unable to capture unprotected markets. Specifically, it can be shown 
(see the online Appendix) that firms with sufficiently high productivity levels φ are 
unaffected by imitation in the South, and are therefore insensitive to the quality of 
Southern patent protection ​ξ​S​.
Result 5: The differential effects of improved Southern patent protection are more 
pronounced for relatively unproductive firms, because high-productivity firms are 
not affected by imitation in the South and are therefore not responsive to patent 
reform.
II.  Data and Descriptive Statistics
Evaluating the theoretical results above requires measures of product life-cycle 
lengths, multinational activity, and host-country intellectual property rights. I 
describe these below.
A. Product Life-Cycle Lengths by Industry
One natural approach to measuring product life-cycle lengths ​T​j​ is to determine 
the average retail duration of individual product varieties. Direct measures of prod-
uct turnover are available in some industries (for example, Broda and Weinstein 
2010), and I will describe results based on such an index later in Section V. But the 
theory developed in Section I suggests an alternative measurement approach. In the 
model, each product is associated with proprietary information (patented and tacit 
intellectual property) that is necessary for production, but which loses its economic 
value when the product becomes obsolete. Implicit in this view is a separability 
of proprietary information across products: the information required to manufac-
ture each new product must be distinct from that required for any older product.14 
The critical difference across industries in the model is therefore not the time lapse 
between different versions of a product embodying the same innovative idea, but 
13 My assumption that Southern firms do not inherit innovators’ productivity through imitation is consistent with 
evidence in Qian (2008), Bloom and Van Reenen (2007), Bloom, Sadun, and Van Reenen (2012), and Bloom et al. 
(2013), that firm productivity is composed of nonproduct characteristics including manufacturing ability, manage-
ment quality, corporate structure, marketing, sales networks, and so on. These elements are difficult to imitate but 
essential to maintaining productivity over time (Teece, Pisano, and Shuen 1997); for example, Qian (2008) provides 
detailed evidence that imitators are unable to inherit innovators’ manufacturing ability in the footwear sector. Notice 
that my results require only that productivity spillovers between innovators and imitators are incomplete.
14 This is important because, theoretically, a firm’s manufacturing location impacts its imitation risk only if 
products are technologically distinguished enough to preclude imitation of one product solely on the basis of an 
ability to imitate another.


--- Page 13 ---
1991
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
rather the economic lifetime of the innovative idea itself, which may span several 
successive versions over the product life cycle as in Klepper (1996). 
As an illustration of this product definition, consider the example of automobiles. 
New car models within an automobile product line are introduced annually (termed 
the “model cycle” in Bils 2009), but the technological overlap across successive 
models is substantial.15 Because of this technological overlap, assigning ​T​j​ to be one 
year for automobiles would be incorrect in the context of the theory in Section I; 
firms facing imitation lose exclusive control of proprietary technologies, impacting 
the profitability of both current and future models. From an imitation view, the rele-
vant product life cycle for cars is, thus, longer than a year, and according to the model 
in Section I, coincides with the economic lifetime of embedded technologies.16 
Motivated by this product definition, my measurement approach aims to capture 
cross-industry variation in product life-cycle lengths by determining the economic 
durability of embedded technologies. To do this, I use detailed information in US pat-
ent records. The length of time during which a given patent continues to be cited by 
subsequent patents provides an indication of the market lifetime of the cited patent’s 
technology, with a long average “forward citation lag”—the time lapse between the 
cited patent’s grant date and a subsequent citation—indicating that the technology 
exhibits lasting relevance to future innovation.17 In the online Appendix, I formalize 
my measurement approach within a simple theory of patent citations and derive a 
sector-level index of product life-cycle lengths that may be constructed using standard 
datasets (NBER US Patent Citation Data File; Hall, Jaffe, and Trajtenberg 2001). The 
index, ​  T​j​ , is the average forward citation lag within an industry.18 To construct ​  T​j​ , I 
place no restriction on the patent class of citing patents, to allow for the possibility 
that a patented technology may have relevance to future innovation not only within its 
own class, but also for other patent classes. Notice that the validity of this ​  T​j​ rests on 
the assumption that the durability of patented product-specific knowledge is positively 
correlated with the durability of tacit (unpatented) product-specific knowledge; this is 
consistent with the idea that both are essential elements of the same final good.19 
15 Successive versions of the Honda Accord, for example, are so similar that the BLS substitutes new versions 
for old (e.g., the 2012 Honda Accord LX is substituted for the 2011 Honda Accord LX, with minimal adjustment) 
to establish price comparisons underlying official US inflation indexes (Bils 2009).
16 See also Klepper (1996) and Greenstein and Wade (1998) for further discussion and references.
17 As an example of the functional role played by patent citations, consider the medical device firm Macquet 
Cardiovascular. According to an executive at the firm, patents for follow-on inventions (including theirs) are com-
pelled to cite prior art as an indication of close or overlapping claims that may result in a royalty payment. Such 
citations, and royalty payments, continue to accrue only as long as the prior technology is viable and cease when it 
becomes obsolete. This logic is related to Narin and Olivastro (1993) and Mehta, Rysman, and Simcoe (2010), and 
under general conditions implies a link between citation timing and technology obsolescence at the industry level 
(see online Appendix A.2).
18 As an illustration, consider two US patents with application dates in 1991. US patent 5,140,955 granted in 
1992 to Honda Motor Company (class 123, internal combustion engines) was cited 29 times (primarily by GM 
and Caterpillar) during its first 15 years, and the average time between its grant date and a subsequent citation is 
seven years, with the most recent citation in 2005. By comparison, US patent 5,239,631 granted in 1993 to IBM 
Corporation (class 710, electrical computers and digital data processing systems) was cited a comparable 25 times 
(primarily by Intel and Compaq) during its first 15 years; however, its average forward citation lag is much shorter, 
3.6 years, and the most recent citation is in 2001. In line with this example, the constructed product life-cycle length 
index is longer for motor vehicles (SIC 371) at 9.64 years than for computers and office equipment (SIC 357) at 
8.38 years.
19 This assumption is also consistent with evidence indicating complementarity between patented and tacit 
knowledge (Arora 1996). In addition, it is important that most citations are inserted by official patent examiners, 
making strategic citations improbable (e.g., Sampat 2010).


--- Page 14 ---
1992
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
Mapping ​  T​j​ onto data for multinational activity from the BEA involves using a 
concordance between US patent classes and SIC three-digit industry codes.20 In 
most cases, many patent classes correspond to the same SIC industry. I therefore 
take an unweighted average ​  T​j​ index across all patent classes matched to a given 
SIC code. 
There is considerable variation in this index across industries as shown in Figure 2. 
In Table 1, I provide the names of the top five and bottom five industries, as well as 
the five industries around the median, ranked by measured product life-cycle lengths. 
Electronics, clockwork-operated devices, and computers have some of the shortest 
product life cycles, while machine products, shipping containers, and nonelectric 
heating equipment have some of the longest life cycles. Table 1 also indicates that 
my index of product life-cycle lengths does not simply reflect sectors’ innovation 
intensities. While some sectors with quickly obsolescing technologies (low ​T​j​) have 
higher R&D intensities (the ratio of R&D to sales), a plot of R&D intensity against ​
T​j​ in Figure 3 shows that these two measures reflect distinct industry characteristics 
(correlation −0.32). My empirical analysis explicitly incorporates sectors’ R&D 
intensities and other characteristics that may affect firms’ sensitivity to patent pro-
tection (Sections III–V). I document the stability of  ​  T​j​ over time, in both magnitude 
and the rank-ordering across industries, in the online Appendix.
B. Comparing ​  T​j​ and Alternative Measures of Technology Obsolescence
For robustness, in Section V I use several alternative proxies for ​T​j​ . First, skewness 
in patent values (Schankerman 1998; Hall, Jaffe, and Trajtenberg 2001) suggests 
that patents at the upper tail of each distribution are relatively successful innova-
tions that, as a result, may better reflect the durability of technology ­multinational 
firms are concerned about protecting. Accordingly, I construct alternative proxies 
20 This concordance can be downloaded from the website of the US Patent and Trademark Office, http://www.
uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/ido/oeip/taf/data/sic_conc/2005_diskette/.
5.00 
7.00 
9.00 
11.00 
Figure 2. Average Citation Lag (Years)
Notes: This figure shows the average patent citation lag for each of the 37 SIC three-digit 
industries studied in this paper. Citation lags are measured in years and were computed using 
data in the NBER Patent Citation Datafile (Hall, Jaffe, and Trajtenberg 2001).


--- Page 15 ---
1993
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
for T based on the seventy-fifth and eighty-fifth percentiles of each citation lag dis-
tribution. Second, I consider measures of knowledge obsolescence and patent dura-
tion that are based on patent renewal data. Prior research has used patent renewal 
data to evaluate patent quality, the rate of depreciation of knowledge capital, and, 
relatedly, the asset value of patents (Pakes 1986; Schankerman and Pakes 1986; 
6.50 
7.50 
8.50 
9.50 
10.50 
11.50 
0.000 
0.050 
0.100 
0.150 
0.200 
0.250 
Product life-cycle length 
(mean citation lag) 
R&D intensity (R&D/sales) 
Table 1—Product Life-Cycle Lengths (T) and R&D Intensities by Sector
Industry name
Rank
SIC 
Code
T 
(years)
R&D 
intensity
Shortest product life cycles
Electronics machinery
1
383
6.73
0.0527
Watches, clocks, clockwork operated devices
2
387
7.37
0.0239
Computer and office equipment
3
357
8.38
0.0987
Agricultural chemicals
4
287
8.69
0.0219
Electronic components and accessories
5
367
8.83
0.242
Intermediate-length product life cycles
Miscellaneous industrial and commercial
19
359
9.68
0.026
Miscellaneous chemical products
20
289
9.73
0.029
Surgical, medical, dental instruments, and supplies
21
384
9.75
0.058
Farm and garden machinery and equipment
22
352
9.78
0.020
Household appliances
23
363
9.78
0.012
Longest product life cycles
Fabricated structural metal products
33
344
10.25
0.0102
Cutlery, handtools, and general hardware
34
342
10.41
0.0137
Screw machine products, bolts, nuts, screws
35
345
10.42
0.0240
Metal cans and shipping containers
36
341
10.63
0.0119
Heating equipment, except electric 
37
343
10.89
0.00986
Notes: This table shows the product life-cycle length (the average patent citation lag) and R&D 
intensity (the ratio of R&D to sales) for the top and bottom five industries ranked by product 
life-cycle lengths, as well as five industries around the median. Patent citation data is from the 
NBER US Patent Citation Data File (Hall, Jaffe, and Trajtenberg 2001). R&D intensity is the 
average ratio of R&D to sales by industry among multinationals and is based on firm-level data 
from the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Figure 3. Product Life-Cycle Lengths versus R&D Intensities across Industries
Notes: This figure plots the product life-cycle length against the R&D intensity of each SIC 
three-digit industry studied in this paper. Product life-cycle lengths are average patent cita-
tion lags and are computed using data in the NBER Patent Citation Datafile. R&D intensity is 
the R&D-to-sales ratio in the BEA firm-level data during the benchmark years between 1982 
and 2004.


--- Page 16 ---
1994
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
Lanjouw, Pakes, and Putnam 1998; Lanjouw and Schankerman 2004; Schankerman 
1998; Bessen 2008; Mehta, Rysman, and Simcoe 2010). I construct a disaggregated 
renewal-based measure and use this as an alternative proxy for T.21 Finally, I com-
pare my main results with specifications using the Broda and Weinstein (2010) prod-
uct turnover index, as described above. Further detail on data construction and the 
comparison across alternative measures of ​T​j​ may be found in the online Appendix.
C. US Multinational Activity Abroad
I use firm-level panel data on the global operations of US-based multinationals 
from the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Survey of US Direct Investment 
Abroad. These data provide information on US parent companies and each foreign 
affiliate on an annual basis.22 This analysis uses data from benchmark-year surveys, 
which are the most extensive in both scope and coverage and are available for 1982, 
1989, 1994, 1999, and 2004.23 Table 2 provides a summary of multinational activity 
during the five benchmark years by industry, including total assets, employment, 
sales, and R&D expenditures across the countries and industries in this study.24 
To analyze the influence of patent laws on multinationals’ affiliate location deci-
sions, I use disaggregated information on the sales, employment, and assets of mul-
tinational affiliates located in 92 countries. Countries were included in the dataset 
if (i) any US FDI was recorded in any of the benchmark years, and (ii) the patent 
rights index described below was available for the host country in at least two peri-
ods. Affiliate sales are reported by three-digit industry code, making it possible to 
categorize affiliate activity by primary industry. I also compare affiliate sales with 
US exports by sector using data from the US Census Bureau.25
21 Direct comparisons between existing knowledge-depreciation rates (e.g., Schankerman 1998) and ​  T​j​ are dif-
ficult, because these measures are available for broad technology categories, while ​  T​j​ is available for hundreds of 
patent classes. I therefore construct a more disaggregated renewal-based measure and find a correlation with ​  T​j​ 
of approximately 0.30. This suggests that citation lag and renewal data, though distinct, may capture overlapping 
information regarding the durability of patented technology.
22 Any US person having direct or indirect ownership or control of 10 percent or more of the voting securities 
of an incorporated foreign business enterprise or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated foreign business enter-
prise at any time during the benchmark fiscal year in question is considered to have a foreign affiliate. However, for 
very small affiliates that do not own another affiliate, parents are exempt from reporting with the standard survey 
form. Foreign affiliates are required to report separately unless they are in both in the same country and three-digit 
industry. Each affiliate is considered to be incorporated where its physical assets are located.
23 The BEA’s data coverage is nearly complete: in a typical benchmark year, the survey accounts for over 99 per-
cent of affiliate activity. In 1994, for example, participating affiliates accounted for an estimated 99.8 percent of total 
assets, 99.7 percent of total sales, and 99.9 percent of total US FDI. This reflects the requirement of participation 
for every US person having a foreign affiliate. However, in certain cases involving missing survey responses, the 
BEA data may instead report imputed values; these values are coded accordingly, and I exclude from my analysis 
all such observations.
24 While these data provide a nearly complete representation of offshore manufacturing by US firms by country, 
a limitation is that coverage is restricted to activity occurring within firm boundaries. As a result, my estimates may 
provide only a lower bound for the overall effect of patent protection on industrial activity, as stronger patent protec-
tion may attract not only increased within-firm manufacturing, but also greater levels of arms’ length sourcing. Both 
modes of response are consistent with my theoretical model.
25 Sector-level trade data may be obtained directly from the Census Bureau or may alternatively be downloaded 
from Peter Schott’s website, http://www.som.yale.edu/faculty/pks4/.


--- Page 17 ---
1995
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
D. Intellectual Property Rights Protection across Countries
A proxy for the strength of patent protection across countries is provided by an 
index developed in Ginarte and Park (1997) and updated in Park (2008). This index 
is widely used because of its detailed construction and extensive coverage.26 The 
index documents the strength of patent rights in five distinct categories: (i) extent 
of coverage, (ii) membership in international patent agreements, (iii) provisions for 
loss of patent protection, (iv) enforcement mechanisms, and (v) duration of pro-
tection. Each category is given a score between zero and one based on whether 
26 See, for example, Qian (2007); Branstetter, Fisman, and Foley (2006); Javorcik (2004); McCalman (2004); 
and Yang and Maskus (2001).
Table 2—Regression Summary Statistics
Variable
Mean
SD
Min 
Max
Country-industry-year level
Total affiliate sales (thousands $us)
257,000
2,000,000
−9,100
88,600,000
Total affiliate employment
942
5,300
0
161,000
Total affiliate assets (thousands $us)
316,000
3,120,000
0
171,000,000
Total affiliate R&D (thousands $US)
3,300
42,800
0
2,131,732
Number of affiliates
2.31
7.48
0
114
Number of affiliates per country-year, conditional on presence
7.98
12.2
1
114
Affiliate-year level
Affiliate sales (thousands $us)
80,200
491,000
Affiliate employment
310
1,290
Affiliate assets (thousands $us)
79,500
439,000
Affiliate R&D (thousands $US)
1,070
16,400
Affiliate sales to local unaffiliated (only majority owned)
43,000
210,000
Affiliate sales to us (only majority owned)
10,900
214,000
Industry level
Average patent citation lag (years)
9.55
0.79
6.73
10.9
Average eighty-fifth percentile patent citation lag
17
1.18
13
20
Average R&D intensity
0.0379
0.0435
0.00502
0.242
Average share of intrafirm sales S/(S + X)
0.22
0.36
−0.107
1.4
log US exports (thousands $US)
74,276.60
618,355.30
0
3.90E + 07
Country-year level
Patent index
2.76
1.10
0.59
4.67
Delta patent index
0.32
0.47
0
2.18
log gdp per capita
8.79
1.11
5.08
11.1
Corporate tax rate
0.09
0.07
0.0019
0.89
General
Number of parent companies per year
959
96
886
1,125
Number of affiliates per parent
9.74
20.5
Number of countries
94
Number of industries
37
Number of observations, industry level 
13,629
Number of observations, industry level, conditional on presence 
4,783
Number of observations, affiliate level
22,505
Notes: This table summarizes multinational activity, host-country institutions, and industry characteristics across 
94 countries, 37 industries, and all benchmark years during 1982–2004. Average patent citation lags were calcu-
lated using the NBER US Patent Citation Data File (Hall, Jaffe, and Trajtenberg 2001) by patent class and matched 
to three-digit SIC industry codes using a standard USPTO concordance. GDP per capita is from the Penn World 
Table (Heston, Summers, and Aten 2009). All other variables are from the Bureau of Economic Analysis Survey 
of US Direct Investment Abroad, and pertain to US outward foreign direct investment during the five most recent 
benchmark survey years (1982, 1989, 1994, 1999, 2004). 


--- Page 18 ---
1996
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
prevailing patent laws meet specific, objective criteria.27 The overall index is the 
unweighted sum of these five subindexes and, thus, ranges between zero and five, 
with higher values indicating stronger protection. My main results are based on this 
overall index; I also evaluate the importance of each individual subindex in alterna-
tive specifications. These indexes are available for 122 countries during 1980–2005 
in five-year intervals; I match the year of each benchmark survey to the closest avail-
able index year. Summary statistics appear in Table 2.
III.  Econometric Framework
The model in Section I has implications for the distribution of multinational 
activity across countries with different levels of intellectual property protection, and 
across industries with different product life-cycle lengths. In this section, I describe 
the estimation approach used to evaluate the data.
A. Baseline Estimating Equation
Results 2– 4 state that the sensitivity of multinationals’ offshored manufacturing 
activity to host-country patent protection is a nonmonotonic function of sectors’ 
product life-cycle lengths (Figure 1). These results motivate an estimating equation 
of the following form:
(7)  	ln (MN​C​ijt​)  =  β  +  ​γ​1​ · IP​R​it​ × ​T​j​  +  ​γ​2​ · IP​R​it​ × ​T​ j​ 2​  +  ​η​it​  +  ​η​j​  +  ​ϵ​ijt​ ,
where MN​C​ijt​ is a measure of multinational activity in country i and industry j during 
year t, IP​R​it​ is the patent protection index in country i and year t, and ​T​j​ represents 
the product life-cycle length of sector j. The main coefficients of interest ​γ​1​ and ​
γ​2​ jointly capture the differential influence of patent laws on multinational activ-
ity across sectors with different ​T​j​ values. To be consistent with the model, these 
coefficients must satisfy several criteria: ​γ​1​ > 0, ​γ​2​ < 0, and ​γ​1​ · ​T​j​ + ​γ​2​ · ​T​ j​ 2​ ≥ 0 
across the observed range of ​T​j​ (6.7 to 10.9 years), reaching a peak within this range: ​
T​peak​ = ​ −​γ​1​ 
_ 
2​γ​2​ ​ ∈ [6.7, 10.9].28 
I estimate baseline specification (7) with several measures of affiliate activity 
MN​C​ijt​ . I first estimate (7) using an indicator for positive affiliate sales (in country 
i, industry j, and period t) as the dependent variable. I then evaluate implications 
of Result 4 concerning the measure of offshored varieties by defining MN​C​ijt​ to be 
the number of US firms with a foreign affiliate in country i, industry j, and period t. 
Implications for offshore revenues are evaluated by defining MN​C​ijt​ to be affiliate 
27 For example, the enforcement mechanisms category was scored by adding binary indicators corresponding 
to the availability of (i) preliminary injunctions, (ii) contributory infringement pleadings, and (iii) burden-of-proof 
reversals. A country with laws meeting all three criteria would receive a value of 1 for this category.
28 As described in Results 2– 4, the peak impact of a Southern patent reform (or the cross-section analog) occurs 
in the sector with product life-cycle lengths equal to the new sourcing cutoff ​τ​∗​(​ξ​S​ ′ ​). This cutoff is implicitly con-
strained in (3) to be less than ​T​MAX​  and cannot fall below ​T​MIN​ without contradicting the model’s result that prod-
ucts with short life cycles are relatively insensitive to host-country patent laws.


--- Page 19 ---
1997
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
sales revenues earned in country i, industry j, and period t; I also use affiliates’ assets 
and employment as alternative dependent variables.29 
To evaluate Result 5 concerning the influence of firm-level productivity on 
changes in the size of individual affiliates, I estimate an affiliate-level version of (7) 
using sales, assets, and employment by affiliate. Notice that if US multinationals are 
multiproduct firms, Results 4 and 5 both have implications for affiliate-level expan-
sion. Specifically, Result 4 indicates that affiliate size will respond to patent protec-
tion nonmonotonically as a function of product life-cycle lengths, while Result 5 
states that this expansion will be concentrated within less productive firms. 
The baseline specification above includes a number of important controls. Industry 
fixed effects ​η​j​ absorb omitted sector characteristics, including imitation timing ​_ 
m ​, 
per-period profit ​π​ N​ and ​π​ S​, factor intensities of production, the average productiv-
ity of firms, total industry size, preferences, and the main effect of ​T​j​ . Country-year 
fixed effects ​η​it​ control for country characteristics that affect multinational activity 
and may (or may not) change over time, including development levels, size, factor 
costs, corporate tax rates, competition levels, and also IP​R​it​ . The error term ​ϵ​ijt​ com-
bines any omitted factors that affect firms’ offshore production patterns. Because 
there may be measurement error in the index of host-country patent protection, I 
cluster errors by country in all reported results, but the results are robust to alterna-
tive levels of clustering.
B. Identification
Identification of ​γ​1​ and ​γ​2​ is based on within–“country-year” variation across 
industries in product life-cycle lengths. A key advantage of this approach is that 
it mitigates the empirical challenge introduced by concurrent policy reforms. 
Improvements to intellectual property rights often occur at the same time as more 
general institutional or economic changes that influence the location of multina-
tional activity.30 Upon joining the WTO, for example, countries align patent protec-
tion with the standards in the Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual 
Property Rights (TRIPS), but also make substantial changes to domestic policies, 
including trade and investment barriers. Because such factors affect multination-
als’ investment decisions, the interpretation of coefficients in a simple regression of 
MN​C​ijt​ on IP​R​it​ would be unclear. 
By contrast, the model in Section I indicates that the coefficients ​γ​1​ and ​γ​2​ have a 
clear interpretation. This is because variation in product life-cycle lengths ​T​j​ deter-
mines multinationals’ sensitivity to formal patent laws, while firms’ sensitivity to 
general institutions and development levels is theoretically independent of ​T​j​ .31 
Cross-industry variation in ​T​j​ thus allows me to capture the effect of patent laws 
29 These are of interest because without observing prices or quantities, it is unclear how observed increases in 
affiliate sales correspond to actual expansion in affiliate activity. Employment and the value of physical assets, 
however, likely reflect true changes in affiliates’ manufacturing output.
30 Prior work has established significant correlations between patent laws and general institutions, including 
GDP per capita and market openness (Acemoglu, Johnson, and Robinson 2005); legal origin (Lerner 2009); and 
economic growth (Evenson 1990). The data used in this analysis reveal a persistent correlation across countries 
between GDP per capita and the IPR index (68 percent in 1982, 67 percent in 2004). For further discussion, see 
Qian (2007).
31 In Section V, I also verify this empirically using standard measures of general institutional quality.


--- Page 20 ---
1998
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
separately from the effects of general institutions and development, even for cases 
in which all change simultaneously. Note that this identification strategy does not 
require identical ​T​j​ values in each country, although it is important that the ordering 
across industries remains relatively stable across countries.32 This is relevant if prod-
uct life cycles were to depend on local institutional or competitive environments, for 
example, shortening in countries with relatively weak patent laws, strong imitation 
capacities, or relatively intense product market competition. Because I measure ​T​j​ 
with US data and apply this to explain non-US outcomes, possible endogeneity of ​
T​j​ with respect to host-country patent laws is unlikely to be an empirical concern. 
However, other factors may contribute to higher observed levels of high-T multi-
national activity in strong-patent countries. Sector characteristics correlated with ​T​j​ , 
for example, may determine sensitivity to host-country characteristics that tend to 
change as patent rights improve. To accommodate this possibility, I interact key 
­sector-level determinants of multinational activity (e.g., industrial concentration, 
capital intensity, R&D intensity, plant-level returns to scale) with IP​R​it​ and include 
these as controls in a variant of (7) (Section V); note that these factors are unlikely 
to be nonmonotonically related to multinational activity. Relatedly, lobbying mech-
anisms may link multinationals’ presence with the quality of local patent rights, and 
lobbying intensity may vary with ​T​j​ . While this form of endogeneity may be pres-
ent, it is theoretically consistent with the model presented in Section I: high-T firms 
might have stronger incentives to encourage patent reforms, compared with firms 
in faster-paced industries. My empirical results would, thus, capture this additional 
mechanism, and their interpretation would be consistent with the model. 
Finally, ​T​j​ may reflect variation across industries in the ease of imitation. For 
example, long product life cycles could be indicative of barriers to imitation such 
as product complexity; it may be that firms in short–life-cycle sectors innovate with 
greater intensity because their products are simpler to imitate, so that rapid innova-
tion is a survival mechanism. Similarly, if products are well protected by patents, 
incumbent monopolists may have a lower (or higher) incentive to innovate relative 
to the case in which patents provide ineffective protection.33 Although neither of 
these possibilities can be completely ruled out, the first is likely to work against 
finding evidence aligned with the model’s results, and the second is not upheld in 
the data. Specifically, if the time or cost of reverse engineering were positively cor-
related with product lifetimes at the sector level, longer–life-cycle sectors would be 
less, not more, sensitive to patent laws than faster-paced sectors—the opposite of the 
main theoretical results. On the second point, the data show that patent effectiveness 
and product life-cycle lengths are not systematically related; thus, it is unlikely that 
long product life cycles result from barriers to imitation created by exceptionally 
effective patents.34
32 It is straightforward to verify that this holds in an extended version of the model that allows firms to adjust ​T​j​ , 
at a cost, in response to the quality of local patent protection. As long as costs are not too large, firms in all industries 
increase ​T​j​ by the same amount, thus preserving the rank ordering across sectors.
33 See, for example, Aghion and Howitt (1992) for discussion.
34 The correlation between product life-cycle lengths and a standard measure of patent effectiveness from Cohen, 
Nelson, and Walsh (2000) is approximately 2 percent.


--- Page 21 ---
1999
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
IV.  Main Results
As a preliminary step, I first evaluate the influence of patent laws on the broad 
spatial and sectoral pattern of multinational activity by estimating equation (7) with 
a limited dependent variable equal to one if positive affiliate sales are observed in 
country i and sector j during period t. 
Corresponding estimates appear in Table 3. The results provide strong support 
for the theoretical results described above. In column 2, I find evidence that sectors 
with long product life cycles ​T​j​ are systematically more responsive to the strength of 
host-country patent protection. In column 3, I add an interaction between IP​R​it​ and ​
T​ j​ 2​, and find that the influence of patent laws follows a nonmonotonic function of ​T​j​ , 
reaching its highest effect in sectors with mid-length product life cycles. Columns 
4 and 5 replicate columns 2 and 3 but include additional interactions between GDP 
per capita and ​T​j​ to better isolate the effects of patent protection from the influence 
Table 3—Host-Country Patent Laws and Affiliate Presence, Industry Level
Indicator for positive sales
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
IPR
0.0156
0.0498
IPR × T
0.0611
1.9484
0.0585
0.9086
0.0994
0.6432
0.0179***
0.2766***
0.0191***
0.2879***
0.0189***
0.2609**
IPR × T  2
−0.1019
−0.0459
−0.0298
0.0152***
0.0161***
0.0146**
IPR × R&D intensity
1.6694
1.5412
0.376***
1.0024
IPR × R&D intensity2
−1.0524
3.2375
log GDP per capita
0.1034
0.0511**
log GDPpc × T
0.0017
0.6688
0.0017
0.6688
0.0059
0.1127***
0.0059
0.1127***
log GDPpc × T  2
−0.036
−0.036
0.0062***
0.0062***
Country FE, year FE, 
  tax rate
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
No
Country-year FE
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Industry FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Observations
13,629
13,629
13,629
13,629
13,629
13,629
13,629
R2
0.535
0.5532
0.5563
0.5532
0.5594
0.5555
0.5608
Notes: This table reports least-squares estimates of equation (7). The dependent variable indicates positive sales 
by affiliates of US-based multinational firms by country, sector, and year and is based on firm-level data from the 
BEA. IPR is the index of patent protection from Ginarte and Park (1997) and Park (2008). T is the product life-cycle 
length, by industry, and is the average patent citation lag based on data from the USPTO and NBER. R&D Intensity 
is the average ratio of R&D to sales by industry based on BEA data, and GDP per capita (GDPpc) is from the Penn 
World Table, Heston, Summers, and Aten (2009). The sample period is 1982–2004. Standard errors, adjusted for 
clustering at the country level, appear below each point estimate. The results are robust to clustering at the sector 
level, excluding the top five recipients of US outward FDI, China, and India, and the chemical and pharmaceuti-
cal industries, as well as including sector-by-year fixed effects. The results shown above were estimated with OLS 
(Angrist and Pischke 2009), and nearly identical results obtain with probit estimation.
*** Significant at the 1 percent level.
  ** Significant at the 5 percent level.
    * Significant at the 10 percent level.


--- Page 22 ---
2000
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
of overall economic development. I find smaller but highly significant estimates 
under this relatively conservative approach. The estimates in column 5 imply a peak 
effect in an industry with ​T​j​ = 9.90 years (seventy-fifth percentile ​T​j​). In columns 6 
and 7, I show that the results are robust to controlling for R&D intensity.35 Industries 
with high levels of R&D intensity may be relatively innovative, and thus relatively 
reliant on patent protection. Estimates in columns 6 and 7 reveal that R&D-intensive 
sectors are indeed more likely to locate affiliates in countries with strong patent 
laws, but controlling for this has little impact on the main coefficients of interest ​γ​1​ 
and ​γ​2​.36 I explore the economic significance of R&D intensity relative to ​T​j​ below. 
For general comparison, I also estimate the main effect of patent laws IP​R​it​ on the 
distribution of affiliate activity, omitting interactions with product life-cycle lengths. 
This specification replaces ​η​it​ with separate country and year fixed effects ​η​i​ and ​η​t​ . 
The reported coefficient on the patent index in column 1 is indistinguishable from 
zero, revealing the potential limitations of an identification strategy that relies only 
on within-country time-series variation in patent laws. Finally, although all regres-
sions shown in Table 3 are estimated using OLS, the results are nearly identical 
under probit estimation.
A. Number of Multinational Affiliates, Industry Level
Table 4 provides estimates corresponding to Result 4. The measure of offshored 
varieties corresponds to the measure of offshoring firms in the model; thus, I evalu-
ate Result 4 by defining MN​C​ijt​ in equation (7) to be the number of US firms with 
a foreign affiliate in country i and industry j during year t. From the perspective of 
a Southern country, this dimension of response is of interest because it is tied to 
potential welfare effects of patent reforms: newly introduced product manufacturing 
may offset the decline in local imitation while also increasing technology transfer to 
domestically owned firms. 
Estimates appearing in Table 4 reveal strong patterns in the data that are con-
sistent with the model in Section I. Whether or not I include interactions between 
GDP per capita and ​T​j​ , the estimates indicate that, conditional on the presence 
of multinational activity in country i, sector j, and year t, countries with stron-
ger patent laws attract more affiliates in high-​T​j​ sectors, with the largest effects in 
intermediate-​T​j​ sectors (columns 3–7). Coefficients on the main interactions also 
indicate that effects of product life-cycle lengths are economically significant. 
Estimates in column 5 suggest that a one–standard-deviation patent reform gener-
ates (on average) a 12 percentage point differential increase in the number of affili-
ates between the seventy-fifth and tenth percentile industries. In addition, column 7 
suggests product life-cycle lengths are a more significant determinant of sensitivity 
to patent laws than R&D intensity: the seventy-fifth percentile ​T​j​ industry expands 
17 percentage points more than the tenth-percentile industry, compared with only 
35 R&D intensity is defined to be the industry-average R&D-to-sales ratio among sample firms.
36 In additional robustness checks, I estimate variants of (7) in which ​T​j​ is replaced by R&D intensity and do 
not find significant estimates of ​γ​1​ or ​γ​2​. This industry characteristic does not appear to have a robust, independent 
effect on multinational activity (Section V).


--- Page 23 ---
2001
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
2.8 percentage points between the seventy-fifth percentile and tenth percentile indus-
tries by R&D intensity. These results also hold using negative binomial estimation.
B. Multinational Activity, Industry Level
To evaluate the implications of Result 4 for industry-level affiliate revenues, I 
define MN​C​ijt​ in equation (7) to be the sales revenues earned by US firms’ for-
eign affiliates in country i and industry j during year t. Estimates appear in Table 5. 
Consistent with the model, coefficients in panel A, column 2 indicate that the effects 
of patent protection follow a strong, nonmonotonic function of ​T​j​ , reaching a peak 
effect at T = 9.82 years (just below the seventy-fifth percentile of the distribution). 
When I include separate interactions between IP​R​it​ and R&D intensity in panel A, 
column 3, I find nearly identical results. By contrast, the independent effect of IP​R​it​ 
Table 4—Host-Country Patent Laws and Number of Affiliates, Industry Level
log number of affiliates 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
IPR
0.0822
0.0348**
IPR × T
−0.0427
0.9145
0.0722
1.0763
0.1022
1.1164
0.0221*
0.3237*** 0.0356**
0.4894**
0.0386*** 0.4762**
IPR × T  2
−0.0504
−0.053
−0.0528
0.017***
0.0251**
0.0244**
IPR × R&D intensity
0.6671
1.9571
0.3233**
0.584***
IPR × R&D intensity2
−5.6005
2.3403**
log GDP per capita
0.9082
0.2027***
log GDPpc × T
−0.2427
−0.6384
−0.241
−0.492
0.0612*** 0.8785
0.0617*** 0.872
log GDPpc × T  2
0.021
0.0135
0.0451
0.0448
Country FE, year FE, tax rate
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
No
Country-year FE
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Industry FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Observations
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
R2
0.7110
0.7351
0.7358
0.7387
0.7392
0.7393
0.7402
Notes: This table reports least-squares estimates of equation (7) and several alternative specifications. The depen-
dent variable is the log of the number of affiliates of US-based multinational firms by country, sector, and year and 
is based on firm-level data from the BEA. IPR is the index of patent protection from Ginarte and Park (1997) and 
Park (2008). T is the product life-cycle length, by industry, and is the average patent citation lag based on data from 
the USPTO and NBER. R&D intensity is the average ratio of R&D to sales by industry based on BEA data, and 
GDP per capita (GDPpc) is from the Penn World Table, Heston, Summers, and Aten (2009). The sample period 
is 1982–2004. Standard errors, adjusted for clustering at the country level, appear below each point estimate. The 
results are robust to clustering at the sector level, Tobit estimation, negative binomial estimation, excluding the top 
five recipients of US outward FDI, China, and India, and the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, as well as 
including sector-by-year fixed effects. 
*** Significant at the 1 percent level.
  ** Significant at the 5 percent level.
    * Significant at the 10 percent level.


--- Page 24 ---
2002
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
is imprecisely estimated in panel A, column 1. I repeat these tests for affiliate assets 
in panel A, columns 4–6 and employment in panel B, columns 1–3, and find similar 
results. 
The effects in Table 5 are also economically significant. Based on column 2 esti-
mates, sectors with intermediate-length product life cycles (seventy-fifth percen-
tile ​T​j​) expand by 11 percentage points more, on average, than sectors with rapid 
product obsolescence (tenth-percentile ​T​j​) following a one–standard deviation 
improvement in Southern patent protection. When I include interactions with R&D 
intensity, I find product life-cycle lengths to be more economically significant than 
R&D intensity by at least a factor of two. Specifically, estimates in column 3 imply 
that the seventy-fifth percentile ​T​j​ industry expands 21 percentage points more than 
the tenth-percentile industry, compared with only 8.5 percentage points between the 
seventy-fifth percentile and tenth-percentile industries by R&D intensity. Similar 
results obtain for assets and employment.
C. Flexible Estimation
To further evaluate the influence of patent protection on multinational activity, 
I estimate specifications that allow coefficients to vary flexibly across the product 
­life-cycle length distribution. Table 6 reports estimates based on equation (8) in 
Table 5—Host-Country Patent Laws and Affiliate Activity, Industry Level
log affiliate sales
log affiliate assets
Dependent variable 
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Panel A
IPR
0.0745
0.0050
0.0624
0.0577
IPR × T
1.7241
1.7766
2.177
2.2836
0.8375**
0.8424**
0.8481**
0.8485***
IPR × T  2
−0.0875
−0.0871
−0.112
−0.1119
0.0434**
0.0435**
0.0441**
0.0438**
IPR × R&D intensity
2.812
4.7579
1.3059**
1.3125***
IPR × R&D intensity2
−8.2478
−13.2556
5.143
5.1173**
log GDP per capita
1.7056
1.7271
0.3800***
0.2700***
log GDPpc × T
−1.6301
−1.4267
−2.1936
−1.8253
1.609
1.5904
1.4531
1.4228
log GDPpc × T  2
0.071
0.0606
0.0996
0.0808
0.0828
0.0818
0.0746
0.0732
Country FE, year FE, tax rate
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
No
Country-year FE
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Industry FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Observations
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
R2
0.6573
0.6874
0.6880
0.6600
0.6883
0.6903
(Continued)


--- Page 25 ---
2003
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
which ​T​j​ is categorized by sextile (​Q​ 1​ 
T​, ​Q​ 2​ 
T​, ​Q​ 3​ 
T​, ​Q​ 4​ 
T​, ​Q​ 5​ 
T​, and ​Q​ 6​ 
T​). A dummy corre-
sponding to each of the top five sextiles is interacted with IP​R​it​ , as follows:
(8)  	
ln (MN​C​ijt​)  =  β  +  ​∑​ 
k=2
​ 
6
 ​ ​γ​k​ · IP​R​it​ × ​1​​T​j​ ∈​Q​ k​ 
T​​  +  ​η​it​  +  ​η​j​  +  ​ϵ​ijt​ ,
so that β and fixed effects ​η​it​ capture the effect of IPR on short–life-cycle sec-
tors in the bottom sixth of the ​T​j​ distribution. An advantage of this approach is 
that the differential effect of patent laws, as reflected by the coefficients ​γ​2​, ​
γ​3​, ​γ​4​, ​γ​5​, and ​γ​6​, is unrestricted across sixths of the ​T​j​ distribution. A consistent 
pattern emerges from the estimates in Table 6: the third and fourth sextile coef-
ficients tend to be positive and larger than the second, fifth, or sixth sextile coef-
ficients, and the third sextile coefficients are significant across all specifications. 
This pattern indicates that expansion in multinational activity is concentrated within 
log affiliate employment
Dependent variable 
(1)
(2)
(3)
Panel B
IPR
0.0178
0.0716
IPR × T
1.4815
1.4501
0.7341**
0.7261**
IPR × T  2
−0.0737
−0.0704
0.0386*
0.0383*
IPR × R&D intensity
2.6333
1.2183**
IPR × R&D intensity2
−10.9156
5.2993**
log GDP per capita
0.7880
0.472*
log GDPpc × T
−3.1263
−3.0456
1.6623*
1.644*
log GDPpc × T  2
0.1481
0.1441
0.0859*
0.0851*
Country FE, year FE, tax rate
Yes
No
No
Country-year FE
No
Yes
Yes
Industry FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Observations
4,783
4,783
4,783
R2
0.5765
0.6141
0.6146
Notes: This table reports least-squares estimates of equation (7) and several alternative specifications. The depen-
dent variable is the log of affiliate sales (panel A, columns 1–3), the log of affiliate assets (panel A, columns 4–6), 
or the log of affiliate employment (panel B, columns 1–3) for US-based multinational firms by country, sector, and 
year and is based on firm-level data from the BEA. IPR is the index of patent protection from Ginarte and Park 
(1997) and Park (2008). T is the product life-cycle length, by industry, and is the average patent citation lag based 
on data from the USPTO and NBER. R&D intensity is the average ratio of R&D to sales by industry based on BEA 
data, and GDP per capita (GDPpc) is from the Penn World Table, Heston, Summers, and Aten (2009). The sample 
period is 1982–2004. Standard errors, adjusted for clustering at the country level, appear below each point estimate. 
The results are robust to clustering at the sector level, Tobit estimation, excluding the top five recipients of US out-
ward FDI, China, and India, and the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, as well as including ­sector-by-year 
fixed effects. 
*** Significant at the 1 percent level.
  ** Significant at the 5 percent level.
    * Significant at the 10 percent level.
Table 5—Host-Country Patent Laws and Affiliate Activity, Industry Level (Continued)


--- Page 26 ---
2004
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
intermediate-​T​j​ industries, providing additional evidence consistent with the non-
monotonicity implications of the theory.
Table 6—Host-Country Patent Laws and Multinational Activity, Industry Level, Flexible Estimation
1{Positive affiliate sales}
log number of affiliates
log affiliate sales
Dependent variable
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Panel A
IPR × T2
−0.0019
0.0238
−0.0126
−0.001
−0.0369
−0.0242
0.0095
0.0096**
0.047
0.0505
0.0787
0.0803
IPR × T3
0.0169
0.0485
0.1071
0.1272
0.1514
0.1759
0.0091*
0.0093***
0.0519**
0.0584**
0.0823*
0.086**
IPR × T4
0.0607
0.0948
0.1014
0.1355
0.0852
0.1314
0.0113***
0.0118***
0.0506**
0.0577**
0.1019
0.106
IPR × T5
0.0281
0.0563
0.0582
0.0819
−0.0041
0.0261
0.0112**
0.0113***
0.0532
0.0577
0.0963
0.0982
IPR × T6
−0.0189
0.0189
0.0535
0.1067
0.0262
0.1025
0.0117
0.0106*
0.0626
0.0665
0.105
0.1114
IPR × R&D intensity interactions
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
log GDPpc × T interactions
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Country-year FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Industry FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Observations
13,629
13,629
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
R2
0.5619
0.5643
0.7397
0.7404
0.6881
0.6885
 
log affiliate assets
log affiliate employment
Panel B
IPR × T2
0.0164
0.0475
0.0228
0.0073
0.0848
0.0871
0.078
0.0821
IPR × T3
0.1973
0.2521
0.2218
0.2085
0.082**
0.0866***
0.0847**
0.0904**
IPR × T4
0.1169
0.2113
0.1765
0.1817
0.0878
0.0971**
0.0943*
0.1006*
IPR × T5
−0.0468
0.0182
0.0457
0.0378
0.0935
0.0993
0.0941
0.1038
IPR × T6
0.027
0.1754
0.1049
0.1394
0.106
0.1166
0.1056
0.1142
IPR × R&D intensity interactions
No
Yes
No
Yes
log GDPpc × T interactions
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Country-year FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Industry FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Observations
4,783
4,783
4,783
4,783
R2
0.6895
0.6912
0.6154
0.6158
Notes: This table reports least-squares estimates of a flexible specification (8) similar to those appearing in 
Tables 3–5, but in which the effect of intellectual property rights is unrestricted across sextiles of the product life-
cycle length distribution. The dependent variable is based on the presence (panel A, columns 1 and 2), number of 
affiliates (panel A, columns 3 and 4), sales (panel A, columns 5 and 6), assets (panel B, columns 1 and 2), and 
employment (panel B, columns 3 and 4) of US-based multinational firms based on firm-level data from the BEA. 
IPR is the index of patent protection from Ginarte and Park (1997) and Park (2008). T2, T3, T4, T5, and T6 indicate 
the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth sextiles of the product life-cycle length distribution, by industry, based on 
data from the USPTO and NBER. R&D intensity is the average ratio of R&D to sales by industry based on BEA 
data, and GDP per capita (GDPpc) is from the Penn World Table, Heston, Summers, and Aten (2009). The sample 
period is 1982–2004. Standard errors, adjusted for clustering at the country level, appear below each point estimate. 
*** Significant at the 1 percent level.
  ** Significant at the 5 percent level.
    * Significant at the 10 percent level.


--- Page 27 ---
2005
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
D. Affiliate Size and Firm Heterogeneity
To evaluate Result 5, I investigate the effects of patent institutions on the revenues 
earned by individual affiliates across firms with different productivity levels by esti-
mating an affiliate-level variant of (7)
(9)  	
ln (MN​C​ijpt​)  =  β  +  ​γ​1​ · IP​R​it​ × ​T​j​  +  ​γ​2​ · IP​R​it​ × ​T​ j​ 2​ 
	
+  ​η​j​  +  ​η​it​  +  ​η​p​  +  ​X​pt​  +  ​ϵ​ijpt​ ,
where MN​C​ijpt​ represents the sales of firm p’s country-i, sector-j affiliates during 
year t. The product life-cycle length ​T​j​ corresponds to the industry reported for the 
affiliate. I include firm fixed effects ​η​p​ (or affiliate fixed effects ​η​ijp​) as well as par-
ent sales and R&D expenditures ​X​pt​ in (9) to control for differences across overall 
firm operations. I estimate (9) separately for affiliates within high-productivity and 
low-productivity firms, and also estimate a variant of (9) that includes interactions 
between all independent variables and an indicator for whether an affiliate is part of 
a low-productivity firm.37 
The estimates in Table 7 are consistent with Result 5. Columns 1–3 and 5–7 
include affiliate fixed effects, while columns 4 and 8 include firm fixed effects. In 
each specification, it is apparent that patent laws have a significant differential influ-
ence on affiliate sales that is concentrated within less-productive firms. Affiliates 
within high-productivity firms appear unaffected by patent laws relative to affiliates 
in low-productivity firms, which is in line with the theoretical results of Section IG 
that these firms are efficient enough to ensure little competition by imitators even 
where patent laws are weak.
E. Exports versus Multinational Activity
In the model, firms produce in the North and export to the South until prod-
ucts are relatively mature. Once a variety reaches the time-to-obsolescence cutoff 
​τ​ ∗​(​ξ​S​), Southern production begins. An improvement in Southern patent protection 
increases this cutoff and tilts the balance of cross-border activity away from exports 
and toward sales by a local affiliate, with differential effects following a nonmono-
tonic function of ​T​j​ across industries. An alternative test of Result 4 is, thus, based 
on the fraction of North-to-South sales accounted for by affiliate sales. 
In Table 8, I provide estimates of (7) using MN​C​ijt​ = ​ 
​S​ijt​ 
_ 
​S​ijt​ + ​E​ijt​ ​ , the fraction of US 
sales to country i in sector j during year t that are accounted for by affiliate activity, 
where ​S​ijt​ is affiliate sales and ​E​ijt​ is US exports. The results echo the pattern of pre-
vious estimates—a small, but significant, positive linear interaction in columns 2, 
4, and 6, and a nonmonotonic curve reaching its peak at an intermediate ​T​j​ in col-
umns 3, 5, and 7. The estimates in column 7 reveal, as before, that cross-industry 
37 To evaluate firm productivity, I compute firm-level Solow residuals and assign firms with below-median resid-
uals to the low-productivity group. This approach relies on firm-level input and output measures, which are con-
structed by aggregating value added, the number of employees, and the value of physical assets (net of depreciation) 
across parents and affiliates within each firm. Additional details appear in the online Appendix.


--- Page 28 ---
2006
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
variation in ​T​j​ is approximately four times as economically significant as variation 
in R&D intensity, suggesting differential responses of 2.5 percentage points (​T​j​) and 
0.8 percentage points (R&D intensity), respectively. By contrast, column 1 shows 
that patent laws alone are not a significant determinant of multinational activity’s 
importance relative to exports.38
38 Note that although similar measures of affiliate sales relative to exports are standard (e.g., Antras 2003; Nunn 
and Trefler 2008), they are only proxies. For example, US export data contain outbound intrafirm sales that are 
not reflected by the numerator ​S​ijt​ . It is also possible that affiliates produce intermediate goods that are ultimately 
incorporated into final goods in another sector; thus, these measures may be noisy.
Table 7—Host-Country Patent Laws and Affiliate Activity, Firm Level, Firm Heterogeneity
 
log affiliate sales
Firm productivity
Firm productivity
Low
High
All firms
All firms
Low
High
All firms
All firms
Dependent variable
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
IPR × T
2.1717
0.6599
−0.1039
−2.1345
2.2323
0.6055
−0.2117
−2.2251
1.0146**
1.7042
1.6359
1.5933
1.0239**
1.7261
1.6773
1.5990
IPR × T  2
−0.1145
−0.0441
−0.0042
0.1032
−0.1161
−0.0412
0.0022
0.1105
0.0541**
0.0908
0.0873
0.0850
0.0548**
0.0921
0.0897
0.0853
IPR × T
2.5614
3.1882
2.6982
3.2438
  × low productivity
1.5005*
1.4639**
1.5132*
1.4525**
IPR × T  2
−0.1255
−0.1613
−0.1325
−0.1651
  × low productivity
0.0800
0.0786**
0.0810
0.0783**
IPR × R&D intensity
2.886
0.6991
1.7696
3.8733
2.0774
1.6802
1.3945
1.1451***
IPR × R&D intensity2
−12.3151
−3.9951
−9.0659
−18.9777
8.3594
10.9891
9.5796
6.7845***
log GDPpc × T
−6.4591
−6.8256
−5.4754
−4.9879
−7.2241
−6.9382
−5.6412
−5.0874
3.9507
5.7972
5.3659
2.7187*
3.949*
5.7526
5.3748
2.7259*
log GDPpc × T  2
0.3164
0.3724
0.2994
0.2622
0.3526
0.378
0.3071
0.2671
0.2092
0.3036
0.2811
0.1453*
0.2090*
0.3017
0.2821
0.1457*
Country, year, 
  and industry FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
US parent sales, 
  US parent R&D
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Affiliate FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Firm FE
No
No
No
Yes
No
No
No
Yes
Observations
10,517
11,988
22,505
22,505
10,517
11,988
22,505
22,505
R2
0.7817
0.7985
0.7904
0.2889
0.7819
0.7985
0.7906
0.2901
Notes: This table reports least-squares estimates of (9), an affiliate-level analog of the main specification. Affiliates 
are categorized as subsidiaries of low- and high-productivity firms using a Solow residual criterion: ­low-productivity 
firms are those with a global Solow residual falling in the lower half of the distribution across firms, while all oth-
ers are high-productivity firms. Each firm’s Solow residual is the component of value added not explained by labor, 
physical assets (the value of plant, property, and equipment net of depreciation), year, and industry dummies. The 
dependent variable is the log of individual affiliate sales. IPR is the index of patent protection from Ginarte and 
Park (1997) and Park (2008). T is the product life-cycle length, by industry, and is the average patent citation lag 
based on data from the USPTO and NBER. R&D intensity is the average ratio of R&D to sales by industry based 
on BEA data, and GDP per capita (GDPpc) is from the Penn World Table, Heston, Summers, and Aten (2009). 
Specifications 3, 4, 7, and 8 include all possible double and triple interactions between baseline variables and low 
productivity. The sample period is 1982–2004. Standard errors, adjusted for clustering at the country level, appear 
below each point estimate. 
*** Significant at the 1 percent level.
  ** Significant at the 5 percent level.
    * Significant at the 10 percent level.


--- Page 29 ---
2007
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
F. The Independent Effect of Product Life-Cycle Lengths
Result 1 indicates that patterns of offshoring by multinational firms vary across 
industries j depending on product life-cycle lengths ​T​j​. To evaluate this result, I esti-
mate the following equation:
  	
MN​C​ijt​  =  δ ​T​j​  +  ​α′​ ​X​j​  +  ​β′​ X​ijt​  +  ​η​it​  +  ​ϵ​ijt​ ,
where MN​C​ijt​ = ​ 
​S​ijt​ 
_ 
​S​ijt​ + ​E​ijt​ ​ is the share of US affiliate sales ​S​ijt​ in total US sales (affili-
ate sales ​S​ijt​ plus exports ​E​ijt​) to country i in sector j during year t as in Section IVE 
above. The coefficient δ captures the effect of product life-cycle lengths on 
MN​C​ijt​ controlling for country-year fixed effects ​η​it​ , sector characteristics ​X​j​ , and 
Table 8—Exports versus Multinational Activity
Fraction of sales by multinational affiliates
Dependent variable
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
IPR
−0.0002
0.0092
IPR × T
0.0119
0.4533
0.0142
0.2741
0.0242
0.2021
0.005**
0.0671***
0.0054**
0.0843***
0.0057***
0.0841**
IPR × T  2
−0.0238
−0.014
−0.0096
0.0037***
0.0047***
0.0047**
IPR × R&D intensity
0.386
0.5841
0.0646***
0.2259**
IPR × R&D intensity2
−1.2363
0.8639
log GDP per capita
0.0281
0.0194
log GDPpc × T
−0.0042
0.3273
−0.0039
0.3277
0.0066
0.116***
0.0066
0.1161***
log GDPpc × T  2
−0.0179
−0.0179
0.0064***
0.0064***
Country FE, year FE, 
  tax rate
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
No
Country-year FE
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Industry FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Observations
12,651
12,651
12,651
12,651
12,651
12,651
12,651
R2
0.5239
0.5389
0.5417
0.539
0.5425
0.5412
0.5441
Notes: This table reports least-squares estimates of equation (7) and several alternative specifications. The depen-
dent variable is the ratio of affiliate sales to the sum of affiliate sales plus US exports by country, sector, and year 
for affiliates of US-based multinational firms based on firm-level data from the BEA and export data from the 
Census Bureau. IPR is the index of patent protection from Ginarte and Park (1997) and Park (2008). T is the prod-
uct ­life-cycle length, by industry, and is the average patent citation lag based on data from the USPTO and NBER. 
R&D intensity is the average ratio of R&D to sales by industry based on BEA data, and GDP per capita (GDPpc) is 
from the Penn World Table, Heston, Summers, and Aten (2009). The sample period is 1982–2004. Standard errors, 
adjusted for clustering at the country level, appear below each point estimate. The results are robust to clustering 
at the sector level, Tobit estimation, excluding the top five recipients of US outward FDI, China, and India, and the 
chemical and pharmaceutical industries, as well as including sector-by-year fixed effects.
*** Significant at the 1 percent level.
  ** Significant at the 5 percent level.
    * Significant at the 10 percent level.


--- Page 30 ---
2008
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
­country-sector-year covariates ​X​ijt​ .39 Estimation results appear in Table 9. Consistent 
with Result 1, I find that the estimated coefficient δ is negative and highly signifi-
cant, ranging from between −0.024 (standard error = 0.0064) to −0.18 (standard 
error = 0.051) across specifications. These effects are economically significant, 
indicating that a one–standard deviation difference across industries in ​T​j​ explains a 
2–14 percentage point difference in the fraction of US sales accounted for by affili-
ate sales.
V.  Robustness Checks and Alternative Specifications
I subject the main results to a number of robustness checks to better establish 
their stability. First, I reevaluate all main results with a full set of sector-year fixed 
effects; these control for the possibility that entire industries may undergo significant 
changes in size, competitiveness, or innovativeness over time. I estimate specifica-
tions that control for the possibility that other sector characteristics may influence 
39 Industry characteristics ​X​j​ include R&D intensity, capital intensity, labor intensity, plant-level fixed costs, 
industrial concentration, patent effectiveness, and secrecy effectiveness. Country-sector-year covariates ​X​ijt​ include 
interactions between GDP per capita and ​T​j​ and between GDP per capita and R&D intensity.
Table 9—Product Life-Cycle Lengths and Offshoring Intensity
 
Fraction of sales by multinational affiliates
Dependent variable
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
T
−0.0243
−0.1474
−0.0984
−0.2495
−0.1813
0.0064***
0.0509***
0.0506*
0.0522***
0.0509***
log GDPpc × T
0.0137
0.0115
0.0283
0.0271
0.006**
0.006*
0.0061***
0.0061***
R&D intensity
1.0883
−4.1162
−3.5703
0.1102***
0.7229***
0.7166***
log GDPpc × R&D intensity
0.5842
0.5227
0.0836***
0.0821***
Country-year FE
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Industry characteristics
No
No
No
No
Yes
Observations
12,651
12,651
12,651
12,651
11,928
R2
0.3285
0.3290
0.3436
0.3482
0.4668
Notes: This table reports least-squares estimates corresponding to a first-order test of the pre-
diction that the share of offshored economic activity by industry declines in product life-cycle 
lengths. The dependent variable is the ratio of affiliate sales to the sum of affiliate sales plus 
US exports by country, sector, and year, for affiliates of US-based multinational firms based 
on firm-level data from the BEA and export data from the Census Bureau. T is the product 
life-cycle length, by industry, and is the average patent citation lag based on data from the 
USPTO and NBER. R&D intensity is the average ratio of R&D to sales by industry based 
on BEA data, and GDP per capita (GDPpc) is from the Penn World Table, Heston, Summers, 
and Aten (2009). Industry characteristics in column 5 are patent and secrecy effectiveness 
(Cohen, Nelson, and Walsh 2000), capital and labor intensity, plant-level returns to scale, and 
the Herfindahl index; note that coverage of patent and secrecy effectiveness is incomplete, lim-
iting the sample size in column 5 relative to columns 1–4. The sample period is 1982–2004. 
Standard errors, adjusted for clustering at the country level, appear below each point estimate.
*** Significant at the 1 percent level.
  ** Significant at the 5 percent level.
    * Significant at the 10 percent level.


--- Page 31 ---
2009
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
sensitivity to patent laws by including separate interactions between IP​R​it​ and 
­sector-level measures of industrial concentration, labor intensity, capital intensity, 
plant fixed costs, and patent and secrecy effectiveness (online Appendix Table A.1). 
In separate tests, I exclude the chemical and pharmaceutical industries to ensure that 
the findings are general and not specific to industries for which patents are known to 
be exceptionally effective (Levin et al. 1987; Cohen, Nelson, and Walsh 2000) and 
exclude the top five recipients of US outward foreign direct investment. To reduce 
the influence of measurement error in product life-cycle lengths, I cluster standard 
errors by sector. In addition, I reestimate Tables 3–8 using a Tobit strategy that allows 
for ­left-censoring at zero. For each of these tests, I find qualitatively similar results.40 
I perform additional tests using alternative product life-cycle length indexes, 
described in Section II. First, I find nearly identical results using the ­seventy-fifth 
and ­eighty-fifth percentile of patent citations instead of my main measure of T (the 
average). This ensures that my sector measure is not driven by unsuccessful innova-
tions that receive few citations. Tests based on patent-renewal data also indicate that 
long–life-cycle sectors are significantly more sensitive to patent laws. By contrast, 
separate results suggest that the Broda and Weinstein (2010) product turnover index 
is not a strong predictor of firms’ sensitivity to patent laws. This latter finding is in 
line with the observation that retail-level product turnover reflects characteristics 
beyond the broader product life cycle with which firms facing imitation risk associ-
ated with their manufacturing location are concerned.41
A. First Differences
While Result 4 concerns the pattern of multinational activity across countries 
with varied patent regimes, Results 2 and 3 provide qualitatively similar statements 
regarding how affiliate activity responds to patent reform within a country. To evalu-
ate these results, I estimate a first-differenced version of (7)
(10)  	Δ MN​C​ijt​  =  ​γ​1​ · Δ IP​R​it​ × ​T​j​  +  ​γ​2​ · Δ IP​R​it​ × ​T​ j​ 2​  +  Δ ​η​it​  +  Δ ​ϵ​ijt​ ,
where ΔMN​C​ijt​ is an indicator for increased affiliate sales. Note that the constant 
term and sector fixed effect have dropped out of the regression equation, while the 
country-year fixed effect is now replaced by a differenced Δ​η​it​ . Corresponding 
results appear in Table A.2 and provide confirmation for Result 3. Estimates in col-
umns 1 though 7 reveal a qualitatively similar pattern of sensitivity to reforms com-
pared with columns 1–7 in Table 3; the estimates are also of comparable ­magnitude 
40 In addition, I use the within-industry variation in ​  T​j​ to assess whether my main proxy is more informative 
for low-variance sectors and find that it is: the results hold with greater strength among three-digit industries with 
below-median variation in ​  T​j​ across patent classes. I also perform tests based on the subcomponents of the patent 
protection index and find that membership in international intellectual property treaties (which impose external 
enforcement mechanisms) is the most important determinant of multinational activity. In addition, IP​R​it​ likely cap-
tures de facto patent enforcement imperfectly; I therefore perform a series of additional tests in which I replace IP​R​it​ 
with (i) the treaty-membership subindex, or (ii) an interaction between IP​R​it​ and standard measures of institutional 
quality: Rule of law and Corrupt, both from La Porta et al. (1998). The empirical results described in Section IV 
are robust to either approach.
41 One important caveat to results based on the Broda and Weinstein (2010) product turnover index involves 
industrial composition: the sectoral overlap between this index and multinational activity is limited (20–25 per-
cent), so that these results may not be compared directly with my main estimates.


--- Page 32 ---
2010
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
and significance. The results are nearly identical when Δ MN​C​ijt​ is defined to be an 
indicator for increased affiliate assets or employment. I also estimate the same set 
of specifications with Δ MN​C​ijt​ defined to be the one-period difference in affiliate 
sales. In this latter set of results, I find that the signs match the theory in each case, 
although the key interaction coefficients are significant only in corresponding col-
umns 2, 3, and 6.
B. Patent Effectiveness
Industry surveys (Levin et al. 1987; Cohen, Nelson, and Walsh 2000) have revealed 
substantial cross-industry variation in the effectiveness of patents and secrets as 
means of protecting innovations. This is important, because the model presumes that 
host-country patent laws offer effective protection from imitation where enforced. 
The surveys mentioned above suggest, however, that innovations in certain sectors 
in fact receive little protection, even in developed countries with strong patent laws. 
I incorporate this observation into my analysis using measures of product patent- 
and secrecy effectiveness from Cohen, Nelson, and Walsh (2000).
In Table A.3, I present estimates categorized by whether a sector is above or below 
the median score for product patent effectiveness, where high scores indicate high 
effectiveness. As expected, the mechanism of patent law sensitivity predicted by my 
model operates more forcefully in sectors for which patents are effective. I show 
results for each of two dependent variables (log affiliate sales and log number of 
affiliates). Columns 3 and 6 are triple-differenced specifications that include interac-
tions between IP​R​it​ , ​T​j​, or ​T​ j​ 2​, and patent effectiveness; the coefficient on the linear 
(quadratic) interaction is positive (negative) and highly significant in these specifi-
cations. In unreported results, I take a similar approach using secrecy effectiveness 
and reach a similar conclusion: sectors for which secrecy is ineffective tend to be 
more sensitive to host-country patent laws.
VI.  Conclusion
This article has examined multinationals’ sensitivity to host-country intellectual 
property institutions both theoretically and empirically. Within a model of firms’ 
global production location decisions, I develop results regarding the spatial and sec-
toral composition of multinational activity. The model suggests that sensitivity to 
local patent institutions is concentrated among sectors with relatively long product 
life cycles, with the most pronounced sensitivity in sectors with mid-length product 
life cycles. Among sensitive sectors, stronger host-country patent laws attract a rela-
tively larger number of affiliates and lead existing affiliates to expand.
These results find robust empirical support within a comprehensive panel of US 
multinationals’ activity spanning 92 countries and 37 industries during 1982–2004. 
Using the interaction between patent laws and product life-cycle lengths, I am able 
to explain systematic variation in affiliate activity, as measured by sales, assets, and 
employment. The results provide evidence that cross-industry differences in the 
rate of product obsolescence are a significant determinant of firms’ sensitivity to 
­host-country patent laws and establish the causal effect of patent laws on multina-
tional activity.


--- Page 33 ---
2011
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
My findings speak to an ongoing debate over the extent to which developing 
countries should protect intellectual property. Strengthened patent protection may 
discourage imitation but raises prices faced by domestic consumers, creating direct 
welfare losses such as those found by Chaudhuri, Goldberg, and Jia (2006). Unless 
these losses are eventually offset by higher growth, for example due to significant 
increases in domestic innovation and technology transfer by foreign firms, it is not 
clear that developing countries stand to gain by undertaking the costly investment of 
improving patent protection. My results reveal that stronger patents do attract mul-
tinational activity, itself an important channel for technology transfer, but primarily 
in the subset of sectors with relatively long-lived intellectual property. In addition, 
if stronger patent rights also attract greater levels of arms’-length licensing, my esti-
mates may understate the overall effect of local patent protection on technology 
transfer. 
Finally, the theoretical and empirical results of this article are consistent with the 
idea that technology obsolescence rates condition firms’ reliance on formal intel-
lectual property protection. Moreover, while previous work has identified strategic 
substitutes for patent protection such as secrecy, lead time, and product complexity 
(Moser 2005; Cohen et al. 2000), this article provides evidence—although indi-
rect—that rapid product innovation may itself form an additional strategic substitute 
for patent protection. From a policy perspective, this latter observation raises the 
further possibility that formal patent protection may therefore be especially impor-
tant for products embodying long-lived technologies. Further investigation of these 
possibilities and their implications for patent policy is an important area for future 
research.
References
Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, and James A. Robinson. 2005. “Institutions as a Fundamental Cause 
of Long-Run Growth.” In Handbook of Economic Growth. Vol. 1A, edited by Philippe Aghion and 
Steven N. Durlauf, 385–472. Amsterdam: Elsevier B.V. 
Aghion, Philippe, and Peter Howitt. 1992. “A Model of Growth through Creative Destruction.” Econo-
metrica 60 (2): 323–51.
Antràs, Pol. 2003. “Firms, Contracts, and Trade Structure.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 118 (4): 
1375–1418.
Antràs, Pol. 2005. “Incomplete Contracts and the Product Cycle.” American Economic Review 95 (4): 
1054–73.
Antràs, Pol, Mihir A. Desai, and C. Fritz Foley. 2009. “Multinational Firms, FDI Flows, and Imperfect 
Capital Markets.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 124 (3): 1171–1219.
Antràs, Pol, and Elhanan Helpman. 2004. “Global Sourcing.” Journal of Political Economy 112 (3): 
552–80.
Arkolakis, Costas, Natalia Ramondo, Andrés Rodríguez-Clare, and Stephen Yeaple. 2013. “Innova-
tion and Production in the Global Economy.” National Bureau of Economic Research Working 
Paper 18972.
Arora, Ashish. 1996. “Contracting for Tacit Knowledge: The Provision of Technical Services in Tech-
nology Licensing Contracts.” Journal of Development Economics 50 (2): 233–56.
Arora, Ashish, Marco Ceccagnoli, and Wesley M. Cohen. 2003. “R&D and the Patent Premium.” 
National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper 9431.
Bernard, Andrew B., J. Bradford Jensen, Stephen J. Redding, and Peter K. Schott. 2010. “Intrafirm 
Trade and Product Contractibility.” American Economic Review 100 (2): 444–48. 
Bessen, James. 2008. “The Value of U.S. Patents by Owner and Patent Characteristics.” Research Pol-
icy 37 (5): 932–45.
Bilir, L. Kamran. 2014. “Patent Laws, Product Life-Cycle Lengths, and Multinational Activity: Data-
set.” American Economic Review. http://dx.doi.org/10.1257/aer.104.7.1979.


--- Page 34 ---
2012
THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW
july 2014
Bils, Mark. 2009. “Do Higher Prices for New Goods Reflect Quality Growth or Inflation?” Quarterly 
Journal of Economics 124 (2): 637–75.
Bloom, Nicholas, Benn Eifert, Aprajit Mahajan, David McKenzie, and John Roberts. 2013. “Does 
Management Matter? Evidence from India.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 128 (1): 1–51. 
Bloom, Nicholas, Raffaella Sadun, and John Van Reenen. 2012. “Americans Do IT Better: US Multina-
tionals and the Productivity Miracle.” American Economic Review 102 (1): 167–201.
Bloom, Nicholas, and John Van Reenen. 2007. “Measuring and Explaining Management Practices 
across Firms and Countries.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 122 (4): 1351–1408.
Branstetter, Lee G., Raymond Fisman, and C. Fritz Foley. 2006. “Do Stronger Intellectual Property 
Rights Increase International Technology Transfer? Empirical Evidence from U.S. Firm-Level 
Panel Data.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 121 (1): 321–49.
Branstetter, Lee, Raymond Fisman, C. Fritz Foley, and Kamal Saggi. 2011. “Does Intellectual Prop-
erty Rights Reform Spur Industrial Development?” Journal of International Economics 83 (1): 
27–36.
Broda, Christian, and David E. Weinstein. 2010. “Product Creation and Destruction: Evidence and 
Price Implications.” American Economic Review 100 (3): 691–723.
Chaudhuri, Shubham, Pinelopi K. Goldberg, and Panle Jia. 2006. “Estimating the Effects of Global 
Patent Protection in Pharmaceuticals: A Case Study of Quinolones in India.” American Economic 
Review 96 (5): 1477–1514.
Cohen, Wesley M., Richard R. Nelson, and John P. Walsh. 2000. “Protecting Their Intellectual Assets: 
Appropriability Conditions and Why U.S. Manufacturing Firms Patent (Or Not).” National Bureau 
of Economic Research Working Paper 7552. 
Criscuolo, Chiara, Jonathan E. Haskel, and Matthew J. Slaughter. 2010. “Global Engagement and the 
Innovation Activities of Firms.” International Journal of Industrial Organization 28 (2): 191–202.
Davidson, W. H., and Donald G. McFetridge. 1985. “Key Characteristics in the Choice of International 
Technology Transfer Mode.” Journal of International Business Studies 16: 5–21. 
Doms, Mark E., and J. Bradford Jensen. 1998. “Comparing Wages, Skills, and Productivity between 
Domestically and Foreign-Owned Manufacturing Establishments in the United States.” In Geog-
raphy and Ownership as Bases for Economic Accounting. National Bureau of Economic Research 
Studies in Income and Wealth. Vol. 59, edited by Robert E. Baldwin, Robert E. Lipsey, and J. David 
Richards, 235–58. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Evenson, Robert E. 1990. “Survey of Empirical Studies.” In Strengthening Protection of Intellec-
tual Property in Developing Countries: A Survey of the Literature, edited by Wolfgang E. Siebeck, 
33–46. World Bank Discussion Papers. Washington, DC: World Bank. 
Ginarte, Juan C., and Walter G. Park. 1997. “Determinants of Patent Rights: A Cross-National Study.” 
Research Policy 26 (3): 283–301.
Glass, Amy Jocelyn, and Kamal Saggi. 2002. “Licensing versus Direct Investment: Implications for 
Economic Growth.” Journal of International Economics 56 (1): 131–53.
Greenstein, Shane M., James B. Wade. 1998. “The Product Life Cycle in the Mainframe Computer 
Market, 1968–1982.” RAND Journal of Economics 29 (4): 772–89. 
Grossman, Gene M., and Elhanan Helpman. 1991. “Quality Ladders and Product Cycles.” Quarterly 
Journal of Economics 106 (2): 557–86.
Grossman, Gene M., and Edwin L. C. Lai. 2004. “International Protection of Intellectual Property.” 
American Economic Review 94 (5): 1635–53.
Hall, Bronwyn H., Adam B. Jaffe, and Manuel Trajtenberg. 2001. “The NBER Patent Citation Data 
File: Lessons, Insights and Methodological Tools.” National Bureau of Economic Research Work-
ing Paper 8498. 
Helpman, Elhanan. 1993. “Innovation, Imitation, and Intellectual Property Rights.” Econometrica 
61 (6): 1247–80.
Heston, Alan, Robert Summers, and Bettina Aten. 2009. Penn World Table Version 6.3.  Philadelphia: 
Center for International Comparisons of Production, Income and Prices at the University of Penn-
sylvania. 
Igami, Mitsuru. 2010. “Who Offshores, Where, and How?  Evidence from the Hard Disk Drive Indus-
try.” Unpublished.
Javorcik, Beata Smarzynska. 2004. “The Composition of Foreign Direct Investment and Protection of 
Intellectual Property Rights: Evidence from Transition Economies.” European Economic Review 
48 (1): 39–62.
Keller, Wolfgang, and Stephen R. Yeaple. 2013. “The Gravity of Knowledge.” American Economic 
Review 103 (4): 1414–44. 
Klepper, Steven. 1996. “Entry, Exit, Growth, and Innovation over the Product Life Cycle.” American 
Economic Review 86 (3): 562–83.


--- Page 35 ---
2013
bilir: patent laws, product life cycles, multinationals
VOL. 104 NO. 7
Klepper, Steven, and Sally Sleeper. 2005. “Entry by Spinoffs.” Management Science 51 (8): 
1291–1306. 
Krugman, Paul. 1979. “A Model of Innovation, Technology Transfer, and the World Distribution of 
Income.” Journal of Political Economy 87 (2): 253–66.
La Porta, Rafael, Florencio Lopez-de-Silanes, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert W. Vishny. 1998. “Law and 
Finance.” Journal of Political Economy 106 (6): 1113–1155. 
Lanjouw, Jean O., Ariel Pakes, and Jonathan Putnam. 1998. “How to Count Patents and Value Intel-
lectual Property: The Uses of Patent Renewal and Application Data.” Journal of Industrial Econom-
ics 46 (4): 405–32.
Lanjouw, Jean O., and Mark Schankerman. 2004. “Patent Quality and Research Productivity: Mea-
suring Innovation with Multiple Indicators.” Economic Journal 114 (495): 441–65.
Levin, Richard C., Alvin K. Klevorick, Richard R. Nelson, and Sidney G. Winter. 1987. “Appropriat-
ing the Returns from Industrial Research and Development.” Brookings Papers on Economic Activ-
ity 18 (3): 783–832.
Lerner, Josh. 2009. “The Empirical Impact of Intellectual Property Rights on Innovation: Puzzles and 
Clues.” American Economic Review 99 (2): 343–48.
Manova, Kalina, Shang-Jin Wei, and Zhiwei Zhang. 2011. “Firm Exports and Multinational Activity 
Under Credit Constraints.” National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper 16905.
Mansfield, Edwin, Mark Schwartz, and Samuel Wagner. 1981. “Imitation Costs and Patents: An 
Empirical Study.” Economic Journal 91 (364): 907–18.
McCalman, Phillip. 2004. “Foreign Direct Investment and Intellectual Property Rights: Evidence 
from Hollywood’s Global Distribution of Movies and Videos.” Journal of International Economics 
62 (1): 107–23.
Mehta, Aditi, Marc Rysman, and Tim Simcoe. 2010. “Identifying the Age Profile of Patent Citations: 
New Estimates of Knowledge Diffusion.” Journal of Applied Econometrics 25 (7): 1179–1204.
Melitz, Marc J. 2003. “The Impact of Trade on Intra-industry Reallocations and Aggregate Industry 
Productivity.” Econometrica 71 (6): 1695–1725.
Moser, Petra. 2005. “How Do Patent Laws Influence Innovation? Evidence from Nineteenth-Century 
World’s Fairs.” American Economic Review 95 (4): 1214–36. 
Narin, Francis, and Dominic Olivastro. 1993. “Patent Citation Cycles.” Library Trends 41 (4): 700–09. 
National Science Board. 2010. Science and Engineering Indicators 2010. Arlington: National Science 
Foundation (NSB 10-01). 
Nunn, Nathan, and Daniel Trefler. 2008. “The Boundaries of the Multinational Firm: An Empirical 
Analysis.” In The Organization of Firms in a Global Economy, edited by Elhanan Helpman, Dalia 
Marin, and Theirry Verdier, 55–83. Cambridge: Harvard University Press. 
Pakes, Ariel S. 1986. “Patents as Options: Some Estimates of the Value of Holding European Patent 
Stocks.” Econometrica 54 (4): 755–84.
Park, Walter G. 2008. “International Patent Protection: 1960–2005.” Research Policy 37 (4): 761–66.
Poole, Jennifer P. 2013. “Knowledge Transfers from Multinational to Domestic Firms: Evidence from 
Worker Mobility.” Review of Economics and Statistics 95 (2): 393–406.
Qian, Yi. 2007. “Do National Patent Laws Stimulate Domestic Innovation in a Global Patenting Envi-
ronment? A Cross-Country Analysis of Pharmaceutical Patent Protection, 1978–2002.” Review of 
Economics and Statistics 89 (3): 436–53.
Qian, Yi. 2008. “Impacts of Entry by Counterfeiters.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 123 (4): 
1577–1609.
Sampat, Bhaven N. 2010. “When Do Patent Applicants Search for Prior Art?” Journal of Law and Eco-
nomics 53 (2): 399–416. 
Schankerman, Mark. 1998. “How Valuable Is Patent Protection? Estimates by Technology Field.” 
RAND Journal of Economics 29 (1): 77–107.
Schankerman, Mark, and Ariel Pakes. 1986. “Estimates of the Value of Patent Rights in European 
Countries during the Post-1950 Period.” Economic Journal 96 (384): 1052–76.
Teece, David J., Gary Pisano, and Amy Shuen. 1997. “Dynamic Capabilities and Strategic Manage-
ment.” Strategic Management Journal 18 (7): 509–33. 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. 2005. World Investment Report 2005: Trans-
national Corporations and the Internationalization of R&D. New York: United Nations. 
Vernon, Raymond. 1966. “International Investment and International Trade in the Product Cycle.” 
Quarterly Journal of Economics 80 (2): 190–207. 
Yang, Guifang, and Keith E. Maskus. 2001. “Intellectual Property Rights, Licensing, and Innovation in 
an Endogenous Product-Cycle Model.” Journal of International Economics 53 (1): 169–87.


--- Page 36 ---
This article has been cited by:
1. Olena Ivus, Walter G. Park. 2022. All rights reserved: Copyright protection and multinational
knowledge transfers. Economic Inquiry 60:3, 1064-1091. [Crossref]
2. Nadeem Ahmad Bhat, Sandeep Kaur. 2022. Technical Efficiency Analysis of Indian IT Industry: A
Panel Data Stochastic Frontier Approach. Millennial Asia 24, 097639962210821. [Crossref]
3. Theofanis Tsoulouhas. 2022. Business commonality, standardization and product cycles. The Journal
of International Trade & Economic Development 30, 1-24. [Crossref]
4. Zachary Cohle, Alberto Ortega. 2022. Life of the party: The polarizing effect of foreign direct
investment. European Journal of Political Economy 72, 102100. [Crossref]
5. Rui Miguel Quental de Almeida, Raquel Meneses. 2022. Consumer Fad Dynamic: the consumer
behavior and the Gin case. British Food Journal 124:1, 383-398. [Crossref]
6. Baomin Dong, Yibei Guo, Xiaotian Hu. 2022. Intellectual property rights protection and export
product quality: Evidence from China. International Review of Economics & Finance 77, 143-158.
[Crossref]
7. Johannes L Eugster, Giang Ho, Florence Jaumotte, Roberto Piazza. 2021. International knowledge
spillovers. Journal of Economic Geography 42. . [Crossref]
8. Tian Heong Chan, Yonghoon G. Lee, HeeJung Jung. 2021. Anchored Differentiation: The Role of
Temporal Distance in the Comparison and Evaluation of New Product Designs. Organization Science
32:6, 1523-1541. [Crossref]
9. Robert Gmeiner, Michael Gmeiner. 2021. Encouraging domestic innovation by protecting foreign
intellectual property. International Review of Law and Economics 67, 106000. [Crossref]
10. Zachary Cohle. 2021. Innovative R&D offshoring in North–South trade: Theory and evidence. The
World Economy 44:4, 904-929. [Crossref]
11. Anders Kärnä. 2021. Take it to the (public) bank: The efficiency of public bank loans to private firms.
German Economic Review, ahead of print. [Crossref]
12. Anders Kärnä. 2021. Take it to the (public) bank: The efficiency of public bank loans to private firms.
German Economic Review 22:1, 27-62. [Crossref]
13. Tilo F. Halaszovich, Aseem Kinra. 2020. The impact of distance, national transportation systems
and logistics performance on FDI and international trade patterns: Results from Asian global value
chains. Transport Policy 98, 35-47. [Crossref]
14. Qing Liu, Hong Ma. 2020. Trade policy uncertainty and innovation: Firm level evidence from China’s
WTO accession. Journal of International Economics 127, 103387. [Crossref]
15. . Bibliographie 399-408. [Crossref]
16. Xinghua Deng, Ran Jing, Zheng Liang. 2020. Trade liberalisation and domestic brands: Evidence
from China's accession to the WTO. The World Economy 43:8, 2237-2262. [Crossref]
17. Heather Berry. 2020. Internationalizing firm innovations: The influence of multimarket overlap in
knowledge activities. Journal of International Business Studies 51:6, 963-985. [Crossref]
18. Huiwen Lai, Keith E. Maskus, Lei Yang. 2020. Intellectual property enforcement, exports and
productivity of heterogeneous firms in developing countries: Evidence from China. European Economic
Review 123, 103373. [Crossref]
19. Patrick Llerena, Valentine Millot. 2020. Are two better than one? Modelling the complementarity
between patents and trademarks across industries. Industry and Innovation 27:1-2, 52-79. [Crossref]
20. Xiaoping Chen, Yuchen Shao. 2020. Product life‐cycle, knowledge capital, and comparative advantage.
Review of International Economics 28:1, 252-278. [Crossref]


--- Page 37 ---
21. Arvind Ashta. Dynamics of a Life Cycle Theory Based on Developed Country Histories 47-64.
[Crossref]
22. Arvind Ashta. Evolution of Developing Country Microfinance and Financial Inclusion 65-92.
[Crossref]
23. Bidisha Lahiri, Luyi Han. 2020. Effect of product obsolescence on wages: Role of international trade
and skill levels. Economics Letters 186, 108851. [Crossref]
24. Federico S. Mandelman, Andrea Waddle. 2019. Intellectual Property, Tariffs, and International Trade
Dynamics. Journal of Monetary Economics . [Crossref]
25. Zachary Cohle. 2019. Global Innovative R&D Offshoring with Heterogeneous Labor: The Role of
IPR‐Protection on Technology Transfer and the Brain Drain Effect. Southern Economic Journal 86:2,
691-725. [Crossref]
26. Claire Brunel. 2019. Green innovation and green Imports:Links between environmental policies,
innovation, and production. Journal of Environmental Management 248, 109290. [Crossref]
27. Steven Chen. 2019. Internationalising cultural products: the Ouroboros strategy and the case of visual
kei. Journal of Marketing Management 35:13-14, 1214-1240. [Crossref]
28. L. Kamran Bilir, Eduardo Morales. 2019. Innovation in the Global Firm. Journal of Political Economy
. [Crossref]
29. L. Kamran Bilir, Davin Chor, Kalina Manova. 2019. Host-country financial development and
multinational activity. European Economic Review 115, 192-220. [Crossref]
30. Nikolaos Papageorgiadis, Frank McDonald. 2019. Defining and Measuring the Institutional Context
of National Intellectual Property Systems in a post-TRIPS world. Journal of International
Management 25:1, 3-18. [Crossref]
31. Azizjon Alimov. 2019. Intellectual property rights reform and the cost of corporate debt. Journal of
International Money and Finance 91, 195-211. [Crossref]
32. Arghya Ghosh, Jota Ishikawa. 2018. Trade liberalization, absorptive capacity and the protection of
intellectual property rights. Review of International Economics 26:5, 997-1020. [Crossref]
33. Anton Bondarev. 2018. Does stronger intellectual property rights protection foster structural change?
Effects of heterogeneity in innovations. Structural Change and Economic Dynamics 46, 26-42.
[Crossref]
34. Giulia Valacchi. Innovation and Patent Protection: A Multicountry Study on the Determinants of
R&D Offshoring 153-181. [Crossref]
35. Annette Alstadsæter, Salvador Barrios, Gaetan Nicodeme, Agnieszka Maria Skonieczna, Antonio
Vezzani. 2018. Patent boxes design, patents location, and local R&D. Economic Policy 33:93, 131-177.
[Crossref]
36. Tian Chan, Yonghoon Lee. 2018. Optimal Distinctiveness Revisited: Using Temporal Distance to
Decouple Typicality Effects on the Value of Product Design. SSRN Electronic Journal 13. . [Crossref]
37. Jenny X. Lin, William F. Lincoln. 2017. Pirate's treasure. Journal of International Economics 109,
235-245. [Crossref]
38. Olena Ivus, Walter G Park, Kamal Saggi. 2017. Patent protection and the composition of multinational
activity: Evidence from US multinational firms. Journal of International Business Studies 48:7, 808-836.
[Crossref]
39. Azizjon Alimov, Micah S. Officer. 2017. Intellectual property rights and cross-border mergers and
acquisitions. Journal of Corporate Finance 45, 360-377. [Crossref]
40. Murat Yulek, Nurullah Gur. 2017. Foreign direct investment, smart policies and economic growth.
Progress in Development Studies 17:3, 245-256. [Crossref]


--- Page 38 ---
41. Xiaoping Chen, Yi Lu, Lianming Zhu. 2017. Product cycle, contractibility, and global sourcing.
Journal of Development Economics 127, 283-296. [Crossref]
42. Zhao Rong, Sheng Xiao. 2017. Innovation-Related Diversification and Firm Value. European Financial
Management 23:3, 475-518. [Crossref]
43. David M. Byrne, Brian K. Kovak, Ryan Michaels. 2017. Quality-Adjusted Price Measurement: A New
Approach with Evidence from Semiconductors. The Review of Economics and Statistics 99:2, 330-342.
[Crossref]
44. Juan Alcácer, Karin Beukel, Bruno Cassiman. Capturing Value from Intellectual Property (IP) in a
Global Environment 163-228. [Crossref]
45. Lee Branstetter. 2017. Intellectual Property Rights, Innovation and Development: Is Asia Different?.
Millennial Asia 8:1, 5-25. [Crossref]
46. Jose Fernandez Donoso. 2017. A simple index of innovation with complexity. Journal of Informetrics
11:1, 1-17. [Crossref]
47. William Jefferies. 2017. China’s Challenge to the West: Possibility and Reality. International Critical
Thought 7:1, 32-50. [Crossref]
48. Ignacio De Leon, Jose Fernandez Donoso. Hiding IP Strategy: Trading Secrets 83-95. [Crossref]
49. Tomaz Dentinho, Joaquim Ramos Silva. Causes and Effects of Foreign Direct Investment in South
Asia 31-45. [Crossref]
50. B.A. Fiedler, Y. David. Reframing Product Life Cycle for Medical Devices 3-16. [Crossref]
51. Leonardo Baccini, Pablo M. Pinto, Stephen Weymouth. 2017. The Distributional Consequences of
Preferential Trade Liberalization: Firm-Level Evidence. International Organization 71:2, 373-395.
[Crossref]
52. Qing Liu. 2017. Effects of Intermediate Input Tariff Reduction on Innovations in China. SSRN
Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
53. Azizjon Alimov, Micah S. Officer. 2017. Intellectual Property Rights and Cross-Border Mergers and
Acquisitions. SSRN Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
54. Azizjon Alimov. 2017. Intellectual Property Rights Reform and the Cost of Corporate Debt. SSRN
Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
55. Qing Liu, Larry D. Qiu. 2016. Intermediate input imports and innovations: Evidence from Chinese
firms' patent filings. Journal of International Economics 103, 166-183. [Crossref]
56. Olena Ivus, Walter Park, Kamal Saggi. 2016. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION
AND THE INDUSTRIAL COMPOSITION OF MULTINATIONAL ACTIVITY. Economic
Inquiry 54:2, 1068-1085. [Crossref]
57. Joel Stiebale. 2016. Cross-border M&As and innovative activity of acquiring and target firms. Journal
of International Economics 99, 1-15. [Crossref]
58. Roger Smeets, Albert de Vaal. 2016. Intellectual Property Rights and the productivity effects of MNE
affiliates on host-country firms. International Business Review 25:1, 419-434. [Crossref]
59. K. Saggi. Trade, Intellectual Property Rights, and the World Trade Organization 433-512. [Crossref]
60. Rebecca Lester. 2016. Made in the U.S.A.? A Study of Firm Responses to Domestic Production
Incentives. SSRN Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
61. Colleen V. Chien. 2016. Comparative Patent Quality. SSRN Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
62. Caixia Shen, Yanfei Wang, Xiaolan Zhou. 2016. Why Are Imported Automobiles So Expensive in
China? A Structural Approach. SSRN Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
63. Mario Daniele Amore. 2015. Companies learning to innovate in recessions. Research Policy 44:8,
1574-1583. [Crossref]


--- Page 39 ---
64. Keith E. Maskus. 2015. Intellectual property in a globalizing world: issues for economic research.
Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting & Economics 22:3, 231-250. [Crossref]
65. Michelle Hanlon, Rebecca Lester, Rodrigo Verdi. 2015. The effect of repatriation tax costs on U.S.
multinational investment. Journal of Financial Economics 116:1, 179-196. [Crossref]
66. Juan Alcacer, Karin Beukel, Bruno Cassiman. 2015. Capturing Value from IP in a Global Environment.
SSRN Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
67. Jose Fernandez Donoso. 2014. Do complex inventions need less international patent protection?.
Economics Letters 125:2, 278-281. [Crossref]
68. Claudia Canals, Fuat Şener. 2014. Offshoring and intellectual property rights reform. Journal of
Development Economics 108, 17-31. [Crossref]
69. Michelle Hanlon, Rebecca Lester, Rodrigo S. Verdi. 2014. The Effect of Repatriation Tax Costs on
U.S. Multinational Investment. SSRN Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
70. Kamran Bilir, Davin Chor, Kalina B. Manova. 2013. Host Country Financial Development and MNC
Activity. SSRN Electronic Journal . [Crossref]
71. Arghya Ghosh, Jota Ishikawa. 2013. Trade Liberalization, Absorptive Capacity and the Protection of
Intellectual Property Rights. SSRN Electronic Journal . [Crossref]

